 Drove a Lexus ES-350, Mercedes C-300 and the Acura TLX V-6 Advance.  The Acura was more spacious inside, it is wider and there is more headroom.  Very quiet interior and the car seems to float over the road.  Too much road noise in the Lexus.   I really like the Acura's separate screen for the navigation and one for the sound system.  The ELS 10 speaker system with surround is wonderful.  The car has good acceleration and gas mileage.  There are more technology features than other similar luxury cars.  Plus it is priced lower than the Lexus and Mercedes C-300 (which is a small car).

 I just traded my 2009 RL for a 2014 RLX w Navigation.

I cannot get over the step backwards in features and quality.

The interior could just as easily be for a Corolla.

The Radio is inferior to the standard model in 2009.

 I have owned this for a week now and I could not be more impressed with this car.  I traded my 2002 TL and can't believe how much better the RDX handles.  Acceleration is great for a two ton auto.  The fit and finish of the interior is second-to-none with a smartly designed cockpit and great seats.  I got the tech package and the ELS sound system rocks!  Nav is easy to use, handsfree bluetooth works like a charm.  I have read many reviews from others complaining about the gas mileage.  I am averaging 17.5 after 600 miles of mixed driving.  If you are constantly stomping on the gas (and jamming on your brakes) you'll get 12 mpg.  You only need to feather the gas pedal and the turbo will move you!

Perforated leather seats, handsfree bluetooth, 18" alloys, super-handling all-wheel drive, hissing turbo!

Not many, but $425 for an auto-dimming rear view mirror?  C'mon!!!

 First tank 19.7 mpg mixed highway (60%) and city (40%) with some aggressive driving mixed with mostly conservative driving. Drove up to Tahoe in snow and the AWD worked great. Love the car so far. 

Heated seats, safety, ability to hold gear in sport mode, vehicle packaging, fit and finish.

 This vehicle handles like a dream. I was reluctant to purchase an SUV because of their traditional fuel consumption but this vehicle gets pretty decent milage. The interior has the feel of a sports car and the turning radius is awesome.  Safety was a big deal for me and the RDX has almost everything you could ask for in security at an affordable price.  This is my second Acura and it is every bit as impressive as the first.  There is also much to be said about the way Acura cares for their customers.  I'm an Acura customer for life.

Love the turbo and shift paddles. The seat warmers and AWD were very handy during recent ice storms; I felt safe and comfortable.  

I would like to see an improvement in gas mileage.  

 I used to work for a valet parking co. and drove all kinds of cars, but nothing like this. The RDX has the punch, it is techno loaded, interior & exterior design is superb.

Turbo, paddle shifter, GPS, audio, design.

 My car is my office as I put a lot of miles on my car.  The RDX sold me on several points: 1) its outward style; 2) its interior design; 3) the Technology Package (outstanding audio and navigational system!); 4) the quality, fit, and finish of the interior materials; 5) the comfortable driver's seat; 6) its handling and performance; 7) the excellent warranty; 8) and Acura's reputation for building excellent cars and providing great service.  The RDX has been very fun to drive thus far.  Some might say that it drives too harsh; however, I am more than willing to sacrifice a little cushiness for the excellent handling and road feel the RDX provides.  Additionally, this car really turns heads! 

The Technology Package is excellent.  The sound system is fantastic!  Also, the interior fit and finish is phenomenal, especially when compared to the CX-7, the Murano, the RAV4, the X-3, the Highlander, and the Outlander.  And lastly, I really love the way the RDX drives and handles!

A car in this price range should provide or offer certain luxuries: 1) driver's seat memory; 2) power passenger seat; 3) optional rear DVD system; 4) and an auto-adjusting rear view mirror.  Additionally, the wind noise on the driver's side could be dramatically improved as could the gas mileage.

 My RDX has many great technological features, however some important ones to me were left off. My TL had seat memory for the drivers seat. This was a great feature for me because people at the dealership move the seat all the time, and it takes me a week to get it perfect again. No power seat for the passenger is also missed by my wife. Drivers side mirror does not tilt down. Rear lift gate should be remote controlled both from the remote lock / unlock and the dash as the trunk was on the TL. 

The technology package I thought was fairly priced compared with most autos. I also like the all-wheel drive as I live in up-state NY and we usually have a lot of snow. Paddle shifting is nice and get you better gas mileage if used properly.

 I just test drove an Audi A3 with DSG and was amazed! The DSG has converted me from a committed manual transmission driver. The A3 was fast and fun, however I will wait for the new VW GTI that is now on sale in Europe because it has the same engine and transmission but is lighter, bigger, better looking, and cheper.

DSG

This is an ugly car. My knee hits the useless cross member on console (like in the Audi TT).

 I wanted a fun-to-drive car, with a bit more luxury. The A3, being based on the GTI, should be fun-to-drive, and come with nice Audi touches, so I thought this was the car for me. The Audi comfort touches are all there, but sadly, the fun-to-drive was not. The major problem is that in Drive mode, the DSG transmission like to conserve fuel, so it keeps rpm low (1500rpm). This means that when you need power, it takes a long second or two to kick down 2-3 gears to get going, which really really kills the fun-to-drive factor. On Sport mode, it's nice and aggressive (never drops below 3000 rpm), but for daily driving, it's a little too "caffeinated."

Leather seats, quality feel to all controls, auto headlights and wipers. All the creature comforts basically.

 The best all around car you can buy. This car is a special car, I've driven an M5 and this car is more fun to drive. Don't let the size of car fool you - the exterior is small and fun to parallel park in downtown, but the interior is spacious. The stability control works extremely well in snow or rain. I have gotten over 500 miles on a full tank of gas that is only 14.5 gallons big, driving from S.F to Seattle. 

Awesome gas mileage over 30 mpg. Fast with 2.0 turbo 0-60 in 6.4 sec with DSG in one review. Tranny and suspension the best I've ever felt. DSG, sport package is a must. It looks cool to have aluminum paddle shifters and the 17 in rims look awesome with lowered stance. 

Power seats should be a part of the sport package. 

 A great car to drive, performance with the 3.2 is smooth and very fast, handling is excellent. Especially like Quattro, no torque steer or wheel hop even under very hard accelleration. The interior is exceptional and the fit and finish are perfect. For the price I would have liked a power passenger seat and rear heated seats, but that is pretty minor stuff. Finished in bright red with 18" wheels it attracts a lot of attention. 

Performance and comfort.

 Had A3 2.0T 6MT Sports package. Very fun to drive, but very unreliable. Over 4 and 1/2 years of owing it at 45000 miles, I had window sensor issues, hutch lock system replaced, ignition coil failed 3 times, cannot keep alignment more than 6 months, coolant start leaking, center console for rear broke off, temperature sensor failed. Dealer in MA will charge each inspection $110 even it is nothing more than error code download and same task. Start costing me a lot to own it. I finally got rid of it

Seat. 6MT. Turbo. Storage space. 

Reliability. I don't understand why there are so many problems when technologies are shared with so many different models from Audi and VW.

 This vehicle (an '06) has been very reliable and versatile. It handles great, looks great, and hauls the mail when you want it to. MPG is about 30 on the highway. Cargo space with the back seat down is amazing. It did have more highway cabin noise than I would have liked during the first few years. A switch to Continental Pro Contact tires along with precision alignment took care of that. This car needs precise alignment, not just "within specs." I highly recommend this one.

 Vehicle has been great!  Engine has excellent acceleration with 250 horses and automatic transmission shifts almost like a manual.  I have 18" rims and my windows tinted and it has been a head turner.  Great for younger people, if they can afford it.  Only dislike is the size.  I need more room in the back, but then I'd have to go on to an A4 right?  Better gas mileage also.

 I bought my car in November 05 when it first hit the dealer.

I've had no problems other than a couple factory recalls (and I never had a problem, but took it in anyway) and recently, a misfire in cyl 3 code which seems to pop up.

New plugs and coils, so not sure what the issue is.

I still get 32MPG on the highway, and yes, that is actual with cruise set @60MPH.

I get my car serviced as required.

 charge port cover is held in place with a spring and if it disconnect it affects the entire housing which can cost up to $500.  What a surprise... it happens after the warranty!  The charge error message "fault in charging!"  I cannot believe the poor design that cost the owner 

hundreds!   I have own cars since the 70s and this is the 1st time a signal light bulb fails within 2-years!   I have a truck/2004 and I never had to replace any lights to this day.   Cheap!!!

 We have lots of Prii in our area, and everyone likes the mileage but doesn't enjoy the car.  This car has a much nicer standard interior than Prii or the Leaf and gets excellent mileage.  Our daily driving is often under 20 miles so we're mostly electric, but when we go over that range, we get about 42mpg combined.  One bonus with this car is it's small on the outside and has tons of space on the inside (except for the trunk).  I'm 6'1" and have at least 5" of headroom.  The small trunk hasn't been a big deal for us, but if you frequently carry 4-5 people and need space, it could be.  When we priced used c-maxes vs similar Leafs (with leather, nav, etc), they were similarly priced, and the c-max can go long distances.

 If you want a car that will last, don't buy this one.  I had to replace what I thought was a head light bulb, but turned into an headlight assembly, burned out and cost well over $600.00.  I had to replace my battery-not the hybrid over 200.00.  I purchased an extend warranty but that didn't cover it, burned out headlight assembly that actually showed it burned, which might have been a problem if it caught fire.  I leased it and later decided to purchase it, boy was I upside down.  I use it to commute for the carpool stickers and it doesn't hold it's value much, so if you only drive around town, good, but get any mileage over 15,000 a year, this is not the car for you, get a Toyota Prius, it will last and also hold value, I have one of these too.  Beware because Ford doesn't stand by their car or parts.

 The Ford C-Max Energi, a technological marvel, is still continuing to perform flawlessly.  The average lifetime mpg-e for the car is over 75.  This includes several long trips through California, Utah, Colorado and New Mexico.

Besides the great mileage, the car is still fun to drive.  The Energi innovations that Ford introduced, along with the smart features this car possesses, makes it a great way to travel.

The car is well made, has great visibility, a quiet cabin, and lots of appointments that make the driving experience easy and fun.

It's now been over three years and the C-Max, nicknamed Barry, is still performing like it did when I first drove it home.

Well done , Ford.

 Hey its not the sexiest car on the road but it is roomy, quiet, comfortable and simply awesome for MPGe.  In 21,000 miles I have used about $45 in gasoline.  I have a level 2 charger so life is easier.  I also do not have a long commute and most of my driving is within the electric only range of about 30 miles.  My only complaint is the reduced cargo capacity due to the batteries.  IMHO I believe FORD needs to:

1.  Up the battery size to provide 100 miles + electric range.

2.  Up the size of the onboard charger to speed charging of a larger battery

3.  integrate the battery better so as to not take so much cargo room.  I am OK if this reduces the gasoline tank size.

These changes would take the C-Max Energi from a great car to a world-class leader in my books.

 Purchased last month (May), one of the last 2013's on the dealers lot and purchased for well below invoice and 0% for 72.

Originally was going to purchase a Focus Electric, but with range anxiety and needing more room, the C-Max Energi was the smarter choice.

Even with a battery pack in the trunk, can fit a stroller out back, will swallow groceries with ease, and with the rear seats down, a wheelchair will fit.

Car sees 80% city driving and 20% freeway, achieving 120 mpge (EV mode) and 53 mpg (hybrid mode).

On a 120v charge, range is 26 miles and haven't been to the gas station in over a month!

 The Energi is the first car I have found with significant electric range and a hybrid backup system that is practical.

Volt is sporty but the dimensions of the car don't fulfill my everyday needs.

 Have been driving this car for about 6,000 miles without a problem. With the federal tax credit and CA rebate, the cost is the same as the regular CMAX hybrid.

 This is our first hybrid car. I wish we hadn't waited so long. The car just makes perfect sense, and what a way to say "screw Big Oil!"

We've only had the car about two weeks, and we are already very impressed. Ford did a great job with it. My fiancee drives it to work everyday, about 42 miles round trip. Our terrain is rural back roads, open highway and a bit hilly--great for mild hypermiling. He gets to work in all EV mode and regens a couple miles, and a few miles back toward home before entering hybrid mode. If he could plug in at work, we would rarely ever have to get gas. As it is, I expect we will need to get gas once a month. Wow.. This seems crazy! Very happy overall!

Update - It's now been two years since we have owned the car. Issues to date are: turned down rear rotor, turned down front rotors, alignment (not covered under warranty), replace charger cable, replace steering component, replace charge port light, ongoing noise coming from brake at slow speed- unsolved. A recall has been issued on a door part. Ford will contact us to do replacement of component once parts are available.

We are still very happy with the car @32,000 miles. No reduced battery capacity detected at this time.

 I've had my new 2014 CMax Energi for 1 month and I'm loving it. I haven't been to the gas station yet. I'm averaging 102 MPG with a +/- 20 mile daily commute and 2 100 mile trips over Christmas. The few days I've used the heat do make me wonder how much efficiency will drop with a/c use come summer.

 This car is not for everyone. It is not for those who want to drive a ubiquitous people mover from point A to point B. It is not for those who want to be in a cocoon separated from the road and without feel for the spirit of enjoyment on the road. But if you want a car that inspires, that will keep a smile on your face, that allows you to understand the relationship between road and machine in the most intimate and spirited detail, then the Alfa Romeo 4C is the only car south of $300k that will punch your ticket. 

The 4C is beautiful and masterful inside and out. The cockpit is made entirely of carbon fiber. The panels are made of high strength and lightweight sheet moulding compound. The engine is a highly tuned turbocharged 4 cylinder mid-mounted masterpiece, that delivers a cacophony of sounds that will let the driver know exactly how much fun it is having. The gearbox is a choice of paddle shifters or automatic, with a driver-selected all weather, normal, dynamic, or race mode. 

The cockpit is made for the driver. The controls are tilted to the left; the steering wheel is not a joystick with volume controls, bluetooth buttons, navigation, or cruise control. It is made to steer and to allow you to easily shift gears.  The seats are firm, comfortable, and supportive. If you want a bunch of buttons to move it up and down, inflate a back bolster, or cradle you with cushions, circulating air, and heat, look elsewhere. If you want simple and comfortable functionality, then this seat is perfect.

When on a drive, please plan extra time for taking the long way home, to the office, to the gas station, or anywhere else. You'll want to take that extra turn to stay behind the wheel. And when you park it or stop to get gas or groceries, get ready for folks you don't know to spill out and engage you in conversation as they daydream about driving your car. Yes, it is that amazing.

 Just traded my Porsche Cayenne Turbo for a 2011 X6 M. The vehicle is unbelievable. BMW has figured out how to create a super fun driving experience and superior electronics into a superb package. It is tight, scary fast and very aggressive styling.  If you drive a X6, you'll buy one!

 I have owned a number of cars and trucks over the years.  Currently own a 911 Porsche and Panamera along with a 650 Dodge Ram and Toyota Four Runner.  I've owned BMW 550 and 740 as well.  This is the best driving vehicle of the lot.  It's still a big vehicle but doesn't handle like one.  My 911 is a 1999 and rides like a Go-Cart.  The Panamera feels like a big car.   Now that I'm in my 50's I much prefer sitting a bit higher and knowing I have the acceleration and stopping ability of a much smaller vehicle.   It is the most fun I have had driving any vehicle.  I'm not fascinated by the look of the vehicle, but then that's what lured me in.  I like to drive fast and don't want to be conspicuous.  Most folks simply don't know how much power this SUV really has.  It will blow both of my Porshe cars off the line.  Excellent braking has saved me from a couple of certain accidents over the past 5 years.   The downside is kids have a difficult time seeing out of the back seats.  And there are only 2 back seats.  I wish there was a bench seat option so we could carry 5 passengers.   My daughter is now practicing for her driving test and I let her drive my X6M.  She didn't like the vehicle having spent her life in the back seat.  The fully adjustable seat allowed her 4'10'' frame to adjust to a position where she could see well and feel very comfortable.   After her first drive she expressed that "your car is way nicer than the Toyota!"  She needed to adjust her foot pressure on both the accelerator and the brake.  Both are far more responsive than the other vehicles we have.   

My X6M is the best car I have ever owned.  My wife expected me to be looking for a new car and asked me about it.  I told her I'm happy with the X6M.  As long as I can get it detailed I'm good for a couple more years at least. 

Oh, the gas mileage is poor at about 15 mpg and the gas tank is small ~20 gal.  So I have to hit the gas station at least weekly and sometimes more.  My Wife names all of our vehicles.  The X6M is named "Thirsty".

 BMW's first SUV that drives like a sports car. Despite the sacrifice of the utility aspect, the SAV is a heavy, well build automobile with sufficient twin turbo engine, and impressive handling, performance and spacious comfort for four. There are numerous high-tech gadgets and functions in the car to entertain you and make you feel real good. The drawbacks: no utility/no space, gas-guzzler even for the V6, pricey when equipped fully, the navigation dvd processor is too noisy, and finally the design attracts too much attention. If you can afford one go for it. I'm enjoying mine.

High technology. Handling. Styling. Comfort. 

Noisy navigation. Spaced like a sedan. Too much gas. Where the hell are the 20 inch all weather tires for these bad boys?! 

 I was in error when I submitted my original review.  The X6 does have the TPM standard, I just was not used to the IDrive and the TPM function is "greyed out" (not accessible) when the car is off.  I was playing with all the settings without the car running so that's why it did not show up. I did have a computer glitch, warning me that the AWD and DSC, DBS and startoff assist had malfunctioned. Problem was  a $20 brake relay swith that was sending a wrong signal.  Dealership fixed it and everthing has been fine since.  Still love the car and a definite head turner!

Still design and handling. It's so much fun to drive!

 I have an X5 and quite happy with it. I took a test drive of X6-35i and was very impressed with its handling of curves, uphill pickup and the interior. It is a pricy toy! Question is less room than X5 but more fun. 

Good workmanship. Even 35 is powerful enough.

Add a seat in the middle of back roll.

 I had the car for 8 months and drove wonderfully. Then, it snowed and my car had no brakes.  I would miss stop signs, traffic lights, etc.  3 wheels ago, I got in a car accidents because the brakes fail to operate. I had taken it to the dealership and complained but they indicated that some ppl have had issues but there isn't much they can do about it.  I filed a complaint at the corporate office but they brushed the matter off as if it was nothing.  Beware when purchasing the vehicle.  Not every car gets tested for snow, rain and gravel.  this is a matter of life and death, for you and others on the road with you. I am in the process of a law suit with Acura.  Good Luck to all!

 I recently purchased the RDX with tech package. It is such a fun car to drive. It really has a quick pickup. I'm sometimes surprised how quickly I can take off if I'm not careful. I'm still learning how to work the voice controls and navigation screen. I really did my homework and went back and forth about whether I should lease or own. I've been leasing another make/model SUV for the past 7 years and finally decided the RDX would be worth owning. I comparison shopped the BMW X3 and Mercedes 350. The extras in the Acura for a lot less money were definitely a great incentive. Yet, I feel like the car is just as good if not better. My friends and family love it. I'm having a blast!

Navigation screen, back up camera (you have to get used to it), memory seat position, XM radio, fog lights, passenger mirror that moves down when you're in reverse (awesome) and goes back to position when you put it in drive, color (black inside and out), surround speakers.

Gas mileage, remote rear hatch opening (what were they thinking), 6 months of free XM instead of 3, seat coolers (for the summer - the warmers are great), but summertime can be a little dangerous, electric passenger seat, slightly easier navigation system. I'm slowly learning to use it, but...

 I traded my 2004 Expedition for a more efficient vehicle.  After 1400 miles of combined driving the computer indicates we averaged 14.7 MPG on expensive premium gas (required).  That is almost exactly the same mileage my big Expedition was obtaining on regular gas.  Needless to say, I am terribly disappointed.  On a positive note, the car is very comfortable (except, a lot of fun to drive, the technology package is amazing, the sound system is even more amazing.  The handling system in the car is a technological masterpiece.  But at 28.5 cents per mile for fuel (and rising), it sits peacefully in the garage while we drive our Civic and EOS around town.  

 This RDX has been a nightmare. I have been in the shop 12 times since purchasing - 4 times for brakes alone. I've had them cleaned, replaced, rotors and then completely redone again. My memory module has gone, my seat has stopped working, blue tooth stopped working, bubbles on the hood from the paint, everything down to the footrest has fallen off. The rattle in the windows is terrible. Trying to get corporate to take back (WISH ME LUCK). The only good thing about this vehicle is the turbo.

The turbo engine.

Everything else.

 What a hoot this thing is to drive! Somehow the wizards at Acura have managed to put the soul of a sports car into an SUV.  Decent fuel economy (great for an SUV), comfortable interior, great looks, amazing acceleration, plenty of goodies in the base model.  Buy one NOW!

The awesome power plant.

 2008 RDX, 60K mileage, no problem so far.

I would say this is a very reliable car.

Pro: reliable, great handling, decent power

Con: rough ride, bad gas mileage

I believe it can run 3-5 more years.

 The RDX is sports sedan masquerading as a luxury SUV. Cornering and acceleration? Great. Cushioned, quiet ride? Nope. I chose the RDX because there are many SUV and truck drivers where I live and I wanted to sit a little bit higher than I would in a sedan - and I am completely sold on Honda/Acura reliability and quality. 

Quality and reliability have been excellent and the driving position is comfortable with excellent visibility; my advice to prospective buyers would be to simply understand the trade-offs:

1) The turbocharged 4 cylinder is very responsive and fun to drive - but, don't expect to get much more than 16 MPG when you're zipping around town, or about 23 MPG when cruising on the highway.

2) The taut suspension makes for great handling - but, don't expect a plush, Toyota-ish ride quality; you will feel and hear road imperfections.

3) The car is very nimble and comfortable for an SUV - but remember, this is a smaller SUV and it really isn't any roomier than a smaller sedan (think Acura TSX)

 Owned the car since 2004 has now 82,000 miles, performed well under warranty, had to replace the motor for the convertible top at 42,000 mi and now again at 82,000. both times the elec. motor short circuit due to run off  water  that enters  the plastic housing where the elec. motor sits in. The water can't drain and the electr. motor will rust and quit. Very expensive repair, poor design.  Car handles great, fun to drive on smooth roads but noisy, and potholes are deadly and my wife hates to put on her make-up while we are driving, rough ride

Styling, performance and great trunk space

Spoiler too low, lousy cup holders, needs more attention to detail, paint is coming off on interior door handles , plasic is cracking on arm rest and all seals around the windshield need to be of better quality they are all cracked

 Look for a well cared for car.  These cars beg for you to push them. One that is taken care of will give you years of enjoyment.  

The car has the look that many will envy.  its fun to drive and if you get a premium equipt model you will not be disappointed.  Enough said.

 I only have 30000 miles on my BMW Z4 2003; I bought it out at the end of my lease; the elec. motor for the convertible top short circuit due to run off water that enters the plastic housing where the elec. motor sits in. The water can't drain and the electric motor will rust and quit. Very expensive repair, poor design. I had the housing replaced in 2008 and now it needs to be replaced again and of course my extended warranty won't cover the repair nor will the dealership

... very poor design indeed and not at all what I expected from BMW.

I also just had to replace the rubber around the windshield and the cowel due to dry rot.

I would have thought the convertible roof of a BMW would last

It is fun to drive but would be more fun if I could put the roof down. Great if you just plan to lease but don't count on long term quality for the price you'll pay.

 Look at a photo - you'll hate it.  Go 

see one in the "flesh".  Hmmm . . . 

that looks different somehow.  A few 

days later . . . I gotta have one.  

Test drive it (forget the 2.5 litre).  

 I'm very happy with the performance, handling, ergonomics and fuel efficiency. The only major complaint I have is with the battery going dead when the car sits for more than 2 days. I suspect it's a parasitic draw, possibly from the HFL module. Taking it back to the dealer and plan to leave it with them until they fix it. Apparently this is a problem with Acuras and I will not recommend buying this model, or any of the other ones, until they address it.

 This car is alot better than reviewed from my perspective. I think the issue is this:

This DOES NOT compete with the BMW 5 series or MB E-Class (regardless of what Acura would like)...really more like Lexus, Infiitniti or Lincoln based on my experience.

That said, based on actual purchase price-- strong discount to MSRP/Invoice so well below BWM/MB this is a high quality, nice driving (love teh AWS) vehicle. My personal feeling is, while not flashy, the car is also sophisticated looking. So far I'm very pleased with the overall package

 Coming out of my first Acura a '12 TL AWD, I looked at everything else in its class. My wife got the '13 Lexus GS 350, which is very nice, but I needed more testosterone.

 I bought my RLX-ADV about 4 months ago and only put on about 1500 miles so far. I have already took it back three times for repair. There were iPhone 4S issue (automatic dial out and hang out), low battery and charging system warning sign(happened in less than first 50 miles), and camera too hot/LDW, LKAS shut down (90 degree outside) during driving. Dealer recharged the battery, but no action to other issues. Dealer and Acura insisted the shut down is the proper action by design. SF Bay Area is known for good climate. The LDW, LKAS shut-down happened multiple times in April. I really wonder what the car would do in Summer! 

Update on May 2016:

Here are updates on the issues I reported. After two battery charging visits,, my dealer finally declared that it had a bad battery. I got a new battery in less than 12 months since owning the car. The charging issue was resolved. I do not have any phone issue now, either. It went away after I upgraded my phone to iPhone 6S. Honestly, this might be a problem of Apple, not Acura. However, the most important LDW & LKAS shut-down persists! It consistently shutting down these important safety features when outside temperature is around 90 degrees. I gave up fighting with Acura since they insisted this is a necessary precaution to protect the delicate electronic system. I am really disappointed. I spent extra money on this car since it was promised with these safety features. Acura sold me an ill-designed product that takes protection of car as priority over the driver!

Update on May 2017:

The LDW & LKAS shut-down is still a big problem! I have already experienced twice this year. Both times occurred when the temperature went up to low 90's. I am an unsatisfied customer of Acura!

 Reading some of the negative reviews on edmunds, I was very surprised.  My 6-cyl TLX with Tech package is one of the smoothest cars I have ever owned.  This is my third Acura ('05 RL, '12 TL with SH-AWD) and it is by far the best.  Didn't need the SH-AWD in this vehicle, and I've really enjoyed the precision steering - I don't miss the SH-AWD at all (and my dad has the SH-AWD with Advance Package - also a great car, but more than what I needed).  The size is comfortable, the transmission is much much smoother than the 2012 TL I owned, and the interior quality rivals any other Japanese luxury standard.  If you are surprised that there is no gearshift, or that the badge doesn't have three letters in it, well seriously: why are you surprised or disappointed?  You should know what you are buying:  a comfortable and engaging sedan, with plenty of room, and excellent mileage (around 27 mpg in a mixed traffic for me) and the rock-solid reliability that keeps me from considering German competitors.  I didn't buy this car to impress anyone; I bought it for me - and it's been a great choice so far.  Changing the selection from Economy to Sport to Sport + is like changing cars.  It's all there, with tightened suspension and a completely different feel.  I looked at Lexus, and I drive everything in the rental car fleet, but this car is on par with the smoothness and comfort of Lexus sedans (and I really appreciate the luxury feel in the TLX - much much better than the jerky, muscle-car-wannabe transmission in the '12 TL).  Yet this car manages to still inspire with engaging driving dynamics and all-around dimensions that add up to a perfect 'fit' for me.  Don't expect this car to be another brand, drive it for what it is: a whole lot of car for the money.

 Traded my 2005 RL -- reluctantly -- for the TLX. Impulse decision. And I havent looked back.  Handles beautifully, great technology features, perfect driving size. I'd say Acura really nailed it. Would recommend this car without hesitation. 

Blind spot warning, LKAS, backup camera, lane departure warning. Also really like the audio system, including screen selection. Beautiful car. 

A bit more rear leg room could be nice but I don't know that I'd give up anything to get it. Trunk space is good, front leg room nice. 

 To provide contextI,  since 2008, we have owned 3 TSXs, a CSX, a Civic,  and, currently, an Altima 2.5 SL Tech.  This is my first 6 cylinder car, as I decided I wanted the SH-AWD.

 I had a TSX.

It was great.

I have to admit, for the TLX, I was worried about the dual clutch transmission.

I worried about Acura getting back to its roots with its sedans.

All that has been put to rest.

 Purchased mine 2 weeks ago and have put on about 800 miles.  The RDX handles amazingly and accelerates extremely well, very much like a sports car and far better than any other SUV. The technology package is a must. Acura/Honda has the best navigation system around.  The handsfree capability is also impresive. Cargo room is good, as well is storage room in the RDX. Interior build quality is quite good; the leather seats are extermely comfortable. Sound system is, by far, the best I have heard in any car. I have averaged 21 mpg and I'm anticipating a slight gain when the car breaks in.  Please keep in mind that I do about 70% highway driving and I am a fairly conservative driver 

RDX handles like a sports car. All the technology works very well (Navi with realtime traffic, handfree capability). Service intervals are tuned to the individual and monitored by the RDX. Seats are comfortable with lots of room in both front and back. Acura's reliability is among the best 

There is not too much to complain about.  For a luxury, technology SUV, there are a few small things missing: 1) Passenger seat adjusts manually 2) No auto headlights/rain sensing wipers 3) no memory seats.  Gas mileage is not great for a 4 cylinder SUV

 I bought a certified 2007 last month with 33k miles on it after lots of research.  This is a great car. Gets 20mpg city/hwy which is just what I hoped for with a 3900lb turbo vehicle. It handles like a dream. It hugs curves like no other. The ride is bumpy, but not as bad as other SUV/ CUVs I've been in.  This car is FAST! I'm not a lead foot, but I punched it a couple times and I was gone! The seats are comfortable and supportive. There's lots of leg room in the back. The cargo area with seats up or seats down is more than adequate for this class and  size of vehicle. This is a great vehicle for a family of 3. It nice after driving an Accord for 15 years not to see myself coming and going.

Love the big comfy leather seats. The handling and acceleration are superb. Love the tilt down passenger mirror when in reverse. The base model stereo is fantastic. The interior passenger and cargo room. The exterior look. The HID headlamps are the brightest ever. 

 after other Acuras including a TL ,I think this a very good solution to a smaller ,better gas mileage,and affordable car.If performance  is what you want I don't think this isthe car but a fun car to drive  and very comfortable this is a great value for the money

 Before making the purchase, I've been comparing cars within the $40k to $50k range that are not necessarily in the same class, like the BMW 335xi, 435GC xi, Lexus ES 350, Audi A4, and the Acura TLX. Taking into consideration the included tech and the SH AWD system, the TLX was the clear winner. With regards to the 9 speed ZF transmission I think it's hit or miss. I test drove three cars at the dealership and one car had a very jerky 1-2 and 2-3 shifts along with moderate in-cabin vibration between 60mph to 80mph and the other two did not. The jerkiness feels almost like letting go of the clutch too quickly while shifting a manual tranny car. I ended up purchasing the TLX V6 SH AWD with Advance package for 41780 OTD and I have no issues with transmission and it shifts like butter. The only gripe I have is the gas mileage in city. I drive in sport mode all the time and my commute is only 4 miles in the city. I only get about 16 mpg on the trip computer and I get about 250 miles per gas tank. On the highway it does great; I was able to get 33mpg in sport mode easily.

 Had an Acura for over a decade and it was as reliable as the day I bought it. I was hesitant to buy the V6 model after the safety recall, but decided to get one after test driving the 4-cyl and the V6. All the dealerships pulled the defective V6 models already. 



To start, yes, there is a little lag on acceleration, however, this isn't meant to be a sports car (although the V6 offers Sport and Sport+ modes). I haven't experienced jerkiness on the transmission as other reviewers talked about. It's a smooth and very comfortable ride! Love that Sport mode gives you stiffer steering. Really reminded me of my previous sporty car. And, if you prefer the fast acceleration, use the Sport mode.

 

 Whether dealer will be around in one year.

 This is the sleeper. This car does not depend on its brand like the others. The Genesis people have proven that you can build a very good luxury vehicle without paying the high end of a luxury price. Obviously, they did their homework. I am surprised the likes of Audi, Mercedes and BMW have not tried to sue Hyundai like Gillette tried to sue Harry’s. To really appreciate this car, you need the ultimate package and the HTRAC all-wheel drive.  Like the other manufacturers before them, the Korean automaker had to crawl before walking and now I believe they are at a full sprint. They are making their mark with the Genesis G80 and their other line-up. This car rides like a dream. The two-button trunk feature is nice as well. I give this car a 4.8 out of 5 stars. You want a great car for the price, test drive this car and don’t thank the other guys, thank ME later. lol

 dollar for dollar best buy on the market . Drive one and you will not buy a BMW or a mercedes

 I have only owned my G80 for a week now, coming from years of owning Cadillacs.  I must say this car is impressive.  I am still learning all of the technology this car offers.  I just love it!!

 My 2009 Genesis 3.8 was hands down the best car I've ever owned, 166,000 + miles with nothing but normal maintenance.  When the new G-80 model came out I decided to give it a test drive; it did not disappoint !  Smoother, less road noise, more comfortable,and way more advanced safety and technology features than the original; much of which is standard.  Still to early to tell, but early indications are that this version will be every bit as enjoyable to own, drive, and operate than my first Genesis!!  Just made a 750 mile trip from Va. to Fl. with some stop and go driving in and around Savannah still yielded overall 29.8 mpg.  Hyundai's move to Genesis as a brand also includes warranty, customer service, and other features not offered on other vehicles.  Value, and features per $$ spent, in my opinion, can not be matched by any other manufacturer.  The only negative, if there is one, may be the resale value of older and/or high mileage vehicles.

 A Lexus ES350 similarly equipped will cost less and have a much better shopping experience and resale value. Genesis needs stand alone dealerships to compete in the luxury space. However, it does look the best at its price but it takes a backseat in the refinement category. I highly encourage folks to test drive several in this category. You'll look at the Genesis on paper and think it should easily top the others. Driving them will show you why cars like this shouldn't be chosen based on specs alone. The quality of the material, how things actually work, road feel, resale, dealer experience and gas mileage are some items that prevented me from pulling the trigger.

 My last two cars (over the last 20 years) have been a Mercedes and a BMW. This car is without a doubt comparable to those. No, it doesn't handle as well as a BMW and may be missing some of the thoughtful touches of a Mercedes, but I'm extremely happy with the quality, power, and comfort of this car. For the price, nothing can approach it. It is a pleasure to drive on the highway - the quietest car I have ever owned. I'm looking forward to many years of enjoying it.

 

 The 2017 Genesis is a great value and a wonderfully well designed automobile.  It is a luxury car with a not too luxury price.

 I have owned many nice cars in my life time of driving BMW, Infinity, Mercedes and a couple of Cadillacs and I have to admit after saying to my self many times " I WILL NEVER OWN A HYUNDAI " I finally broke down and bought the 2017 Genesis G80 and I am so so happy I did. It is NOT a perfect car BUT, for the money and quality of ride NOBODY can come close.

 After 17 years of owning Lexus vehicles, I switched to the new Genesis G80.   This is car is impressive.  Tons of gadgets and features that enhance the drive.   Power and acceleration is great too.  Car includes 3 years of maintenance and 3 years of connected services.  Frankly, Lexus is falling behind and Genesis is pulling out all the stops to gain a customer base.  That's the best time to get one of these cars.

 2017 Genesis G80 Review: I've had my G80 for over 2 weeks now. All I can say is WOW! I love the power, comfort, tech features and all the included warranties.

I've test driven most of the mid-size luxury cars over the past 2 months, and was completely surprised by the Genesis G80.

 My new Genesis G80 came with the Premium and Ultimate packages and has all the bells and whistles.  It is every bit as nice as my last 2014 Mercedes E350 and far less in cost!

 Make certain you review pricing on the Internet before going to the dealership.

 I had put off purchasing a new vehicle, concerned about having to learn all the new technology.  Also, figured this will be my last car.    I wanted quiet, performance, easy to step in and out of and mid-size sedan.  In researching,  I was pretty sure the vehicle I wanted would be a Lexus ES350.  The Genesis was a slight bit quieter and only 3" longer in reviewing specs but they classify it as a large vehicle.  The interior is quite roomy and felt more luxurious than the Lexus(not to mention the heated rear seats).  I felt more car for the price than the Lexus.  I don't feel like I am driving a bigger car.  Parking is easier than my old vehicle.  I really like the safety notification features especially cross traffic and blind spot notification.   Lane assist is pretty cool too.  As i am older, helps with bearings.  The only thing it is missing in my opinion would be auto trunk close.  I keep forgetting to lock it when I walk away but having the app available on my phone to check it is awesome.  Can start it or lock it from anywhere!  Plus, the 3 year maintenance and valet service is AWESOME! I didn't give it a 5 Star rating only because I had to go to mid grade in price for gas.  Also, having to have one of the sensors checked, keeps going off randomly when no other vehicle around so having to take it in already.   Amazing all the new stuff in 15 years(LOL).

 I love this car. I opted for the AWD with ultimate package and could not be happier. The only issues are poor placement selection of the USB port as it can be cumbersome to get to. I am frustrated with the lack of the apple play on the ultimate package. Otherwise, I will be leasing again in three months, may opt for the G90 based on financial situation.

 Granted, I like the G80 with the ultimate package but the Apple CarPlay feature is not available with that trim even though touted as a selling feature.

 I test drove just about every luxury sedan in this price range--BMW, Audi, Lexus, Infinity, Porsche (suv), and some midlevel sedans as well, and I can honestly say this is the best one out there.  Why?  Well,....it depends on what you want.  I wanted Quality (I've always loved the way Acura's drive and last), Safety (NHTSA and IIS best ratings --with suite of safety features), Visibility (you can actually see out of the car and over your shoulder), Dependability (not one issue with it for over a year),  and Ease of Driving (the smoothest engine and most maneuverability I've come across), ---(btw, the steering IS very connected to the road and incredibly sporty for a large sedan).  Not to mention--- the roomy, rear seat, , the quiet cabin, the improved suspension, the way it climbs a hill and never downshifts, not to mention its' classic, elegant appearance.  The RLX is a fantastic vehicle and it's a shame that it doesn't get more love in the press.  Read reviews from actual owners!!  Test drive it yourself, and you'll be extremely surprised in the best possible way.  Pricing is high, but check around to get a good deal.  They are out there.  There is nothing sedate about this top notch sedan.  It is thee hidden jewel at Acura!

 Traded in a 2012 Acura TL .  The 2017 Acura RLX is just a perfect Car.  It is quiet has a lot of power and a great car for the price.  Tested a Lexus GS350 but the Acura RLX is much better.

 By far the best car i have every owned. Does all the bells and whistles in outstanding manner. Cons a bit pricey for most folks.

 This car is a understated value, Had a BMW prior to buying this car. This car is a lot quieter, rides better/smoother, has better visibility, and interior materials. The BMW hype is just that! I love this Acura RLX Advanced.

 Coming from a Chevy-only-world I could not be any happier.  Power, style, handling, it's all there in spades. The combination of redesigned 2.0T-TFSI, DSG transmission and Haldex AWD is amazing.  It is so fun to drive I find myself taking the long-way home almost every day.  And the hatch makes it extremely practical.  My dog loves cruising around, grinning at everyone through the back window.  And the folding back seats have made room for a new grill, small patio set and almost everything I need to haul.  On top of all this the A3 is top-rated for safety and sips so little gas I have no concerns with non-stop spirited driving. 

2.0T-TFSI + AWD = WIN  Economy and ground gripping traction is hard to beat.  Symphony II+ is a breeze to use compared to any one-button Apple-ish interface.  DSG is hands down the best feeling auto-manual.  So smooth compared to a BMW SMG single-clutch.  And stock LEDs are amazing!

Replace shinny aluminum trim with base "black-chrome".  More features should be standard --auto-dimming mirrors.  Seats are a bit tight and not comfortable after 1-2 hours on the road. Harder windshield and thicker paint.  Re-tune engine to unlock true potential, like many 3rd party tuners have.

 Went to my local dealer and drove a 2009 A3 2.0 quattro with bluetooth, open sky, and satellite radio.  Even though I thought I wanted a manual again I got such a good deal plus really wanting quattro I bought the 09.  The DSG transmission is growing on me.  I have always maintained my Audi's and never had any reliability issues other than normal wear and tear items.  The A3 is well built and is versatile.  It is a perfect car for running errands in town but also does well on longer trips. 

The DSG transmission has become my favorite feature of the A3.  I can drive in automatic when in traffic or become a formula 1 racer with my paddle shifters. Quattro is a beautiful thing when you live in snow country.

 Bought '09 A3 quattro s-line with DSG. Options not chosen are sport package and audio package. Too much money for 6-disc and sport sport package includes things I do not want to pay for. Great car, but 6-disk should come standard for $40K. Quattro is seamless. Performance is very good but so far gas mileage is not what I expected - but only have 5500K so far. Hope it gets better with time. Quality of materials is good but fear that paint is not up to Canadian winters (or summers). Already have chips and scratches. No USB connections.

Handling, turbo-four, DSG, comfortable ride, rock-solid feel, quiet, good build quality.

Flat folding rear seats, flat folding front passenger seat, 6-disc standard audio, better winter factory floor mats, more chip-resistant paint.

 Purchase my A3 six manual with convenience pkg, cold weather, sky, Sport pkg, titanium pkg. I think is worth every dollar spent. Fast, solid and very comfortable to drive. Got 2000 miles and I love it so far, is fast, great in snow, cornering, steering and brakes, sound Bose system is superb, is the best car I ever bought. Who needs memory seats? How many times you use them? Is built right !

Audi LED lights, dash configuration, double sky sunroof, transmission, exterior design, wheels, radio, performance. 

 I've had this car for about a week now and i cant believe the difference. 2017 the genesis brand came along with a hyundai genesis for 2017. 2018 is the real first g80 made by genesis because the quality and feel are just too different. Im saying this because i had a 2016 hyundai genesis signature package. when I was testing the car, i think it might be underrated. It says 365hp/376lb-ft but im getting around 5 and sub 5 0-60 runs so i want to go dyno the car for curiosity's sake. BUT my only complaint on this care is that there's no AMBIENT LIGHTING.WHY. just look at the e classes interior and how beautiful it is(however cheap feeling it may be). also beware for those who will be driving in the city... on the highway i can get 30 mpg being careful on eco and realistically 25 mpg driving normally but i drove about 150 miles so far of city only after filling up and I have been getting around 10 mpg.. you guys have been warned.

 Unfortunately, I bought a 2010 A4 CVT (no CVT for me anymore).

I was so dissatisfied with the car we traded it with just under 1000 miles for a Jetta Wolfsburg turbo. A little over a year later, the VW was traded for a CRV and we bought an A3 outright.

It was a bit of a gamble - driving to Atlanta from Orlando to pick it up - but well worth the journey. We bought it certified with 4K miles and turned around and drove it home. A little fatigued we didn't fully appreciate the long trip (and the road noise is a little, I stress little, much) but now that we're back home we're tickled.

 I owned a brand new 2015 Audi A3 for about 6 months and it was plagued with problems. Windows that wouldn't go back up, burning oil, a transmission that stopped shifting, nav and tech issues. While not ideal, all of this would have been ok if Audi actually fixed these problems and/or didn't attempt to charge me to fix these problems when I brought the car in for service. That is the ultimate problem with this car and the brand. They don't support you after the purchase of the vehicle. I've heard excuse upon excuse on why they are not responsible for anything that goes wrong with the car. I traded it for a BMW 3-Series and what a difference in the service you receive. I will never buy an Audi again.

 I leased a new 2015 Audi A3 Cabriolet from Audi Palo Alto in October. A few weeks back as the car was climbing a hill enroute to Lombard street in San Francisco in Traffic, it started slipping backwards and refused to accelerate upwards. The cars behind me naturally honked and drivers were mad at my car not only blocking traffic but slipping backwards. When I switched off the car and tried restarting it would not start for 10 min. After 10 min, it started again and went up 100 feet and again slipped backwards. Somehow after an hour long traumatic experience, I got out of the hill. Following this, I had a horrible experience with the service team at Audi Palo Alto too...

Make a car that does not roll back in a hill....

 ok, i leased with intent on buying.  as soon as i leased, I bought snow tires/rims, clear bra on front, and weather tech mats, audi service package, and i do extra oil changes between their service interval w audi approved oil.  Very well cared for from my end car has 20k miles.  In 20k miles I have had car shut off on highway from overheating, dealer added antifreeze, but it was above minimum and I've never had a car just shut off.  dealer said drive it in.  next I've had multiple electrical problems,  says doesn't recognize key, then i walk away come back and it recognizes then problem goes away for weeks.  then brake light out signal comes up on dash, brake lights are functioning and on (took video of it) took to audi,,  says no engine code, would have to tear car down to look for a short!   so I wait to have them take care of it, and it doesn't do it for months,  intermittently it will occur.  just give it a day or two and it goes away.   then i was rear ended while stopped at light (8k damages and frame/uni needed pulled to straighten)  had audi shop do the work.. got the car back and it vibrates badly from 65-80mph.  take it to body shop, they send me to Sunnyside audi service in middleburg OH, dealer service says everything is straight and balanced and no problem with their work. but they can put new tires on and balance them for 1200.00,  i reply that the car didn't do this before accident, they say they don't know.  I exclaim that the tires on there have plenty of wear left as i have snow tires and the tires have less than a year of road use.  they can't tell me why they would shake then.  I ask for a guarantee that it would stop if replaced, can't give me a guarantee.  I call audi america and they send me back to dealer.  Its a run around shell game thats completely disappointing.   I am 100% sure that the car DID NOT do this before accident and even said if you replace them and it fixes it, i will pay for them,  if it doesn't then you figure out what is wrong. no luck...  so in my short experience as a first time audi owner I have only been given run around on a car with clear issues and horrible repair work (dealer even washed the car immediately after their repair shop did a paint job (you don't wash and wax a car with fresh paint until it cures- at least 20-30 days, sunny side audi should know this).  anyway, each department sends me back to the next with no guarantee.  I've had a rental car for a total of 2-3 weeks in year.  Ive not had any resolution.  I will come back and post  a VIN if anyone purchases this vehicle and has problems which aren't disclosed at purchase,  audi america is aware, dealership is aware and you should get an attorney.  if you get this lemon, post a reply on my post and i will get back to you with an email/give you records of incidents so you may use them for recompense.  PS i asked repair shop to make sure carfax is aware, they say they don't report.  nationwide insurance company couldn't give me an answer if they would report the 8k.  caveat emptor but i hope whoever buys this and has problems finds this post.  JUST HORRIBLE CUSTOMER SERVICE, run around.  but alot of apologies, i.e.    "we care, we can send you back to".  I've owned toyota, honda, ford and acura where the buck stops at dealer if any problems.   acura replaced an  600.00 engine part under extended warranty and 2 years after ( no longer in warranty) the same part had an issue,  acura fixed it free of charge under good faith that it was a bad part.  That is service.   AUDI has provided no service other than free rental cars and offer to sell me more stuff to maybe fix it.

 I traded a 2013 A4 for an A3 2.0 Premium Plus Quattro. It's about a foot shorter than the A4 and feels sportier and quicker since it has the same engine but is smaller and lighter. The interior is definitely up to Audi standards, but the CD player is placed in the glove box, making it useless when the driver is alone (unless you want to drive into a ditch changing a CD!). The handling is sporty, steering seems tighter than the A4, and the car rides just as well as its larger cousin. The engine is quiet and smooth but there seems to be more road noise than the A4, probably due to less sound insulation. Mileage has been impressive, quite a bit better than the A4.  Comfort and space int the front seat seem equal to the A4 but the back is understandably tighter. The bucket seats are firm and comfortable on a long trip. Drove through several snowstorms this winter, and the Quattro all-wheel drive keeps the car feeling secure and planted. Overall, I love this car--it has Audi's classy styling and quality in a smaller package that's fun to drive.

 I've waited to review this after I've had plenty of time with it and now that the vehicle has just about 31k miles, I have to day that it is a really great car. Maybe I've been lucky, but I have had no issues with my vehicle. I like how quiet it is compared to my last car and it seems to fit me perfectly. Granted, I'm only 5'6" so I'm on the shorter side, but I bought it for me and not my friends. Taller and larger friends complain, but I just ignore them.  I will say that the back seat is not that comfortable for my wife and growing son, but she can always sit up front.  About the only thing I have done is change the tires at 25k. The rear tires were already bald so hopefully the current set (different manufacturer) will last longer.  The things I like the best is the air conditioning and the volume knob on the center console as well as the volume control on the steering wheel. To me, the placement of the knob is very intuitive and always easy to get to the right position.  The a/c, with summer days of 110+ where I live, always cools down fast for me. It is by far the best a/c system I've used in a car. One other gripe I have with the car is that the MMI wheel seems to go in the wrong direction. I've owned it over a year and it just seems off.  I've heard they've reversed it in newer vehicles so I'm hoping it's something a software update could take care of. Speaking of MMI hardware/software upgrade, don't count on it.  It can be upgraded, but I'm doubtful Audi will do it so you have to like it how you bought it. Overall, I really enjoy the car and even though my eye often wanders to other vehicles, I still am really happy with the A3.

 I researched the A3 and test drove it a handful of times before buying it. What I don't understand, therefore, are reviewers who are critical of the car (or any new car, for that matter) on things that should be obvious. Come on now, before spending your hard earned money, didn't you do your homework? You complain that the seats aren't heated, and the GPS is not what you like. Really? I think it's one thing to have 'failed' experiences, like poor reliability or gas mileage, but if you wanted certain features, why did you buy the car? That all said, the A3 is a great compact car. I love the look and feel. And features.

Follow up: 6+ months/6500 miles: 2015 A3 Cabriolet still looks and runs great. No issues. Had the oil change/5k service done at the dealer. Averaging 34.5 mpg on highway, and 25mpg around town. Nice combination of power, looks and economy for a 4-passenger convertible. The retractable top folds into half of the trunk, allowing you to use the unused space for small luggage, thus making it more practical than a Mazda Miata or 'hard top' cabriolet.

 Update: VW Diesel Scandel has changed my opinion 180 Degrees. Can't wait to trade away from this car. Don't want to be associated with VW Audi. Who knows what other representations are false? Safety ? Reliability?

 I purchased this car new in October, 2014 and have 60,000 miles on the car.  I average a combined 30mpg and I am a spirited driver.  The engine in this car is phenomenal.  The acceleration is fantastic.  It's a real sleeper.  I doubt there are many other cars that have four doors and excellent fuel economy that can handle and drive as well as this car.  I'm 6'2" and the driver's seat is adequate.  Be sure to purchase the upgraded seats, I did not and the passenger's seat controls are very difficult to use.  The passenger seat confuses every single person who enters my car, including those who have been in my car enough to know how to operate them.  There is a knob to lean the seat back and it is not easy to use.  For an extra $500 you can get power seats all around.  There are two things with this car that annoy me to no end.  At low speeds the transmission on my car clunks in and out of gear.  It's unsafe.  I've been on a slight hill and trying to get the car moving and it's started rolling down the hill in the opposite direction rather than engage D or R, nearly causing an accident.  I've had it to the dealer several times and they've reset the transmission computer, but the issue was never resolved and I am now out of warranty.  The cure is to give it more gas, and this is counter intuitive and not what you want to be doing when you're in a tight parking space or on a slight grade.  It truly is a safety issue and I don't like it at all.  The transmission on my car also doesn't shift that great.   The automatic transmission is nowhere near as good as the engine.   I've had several loaners and none have had the awful and dangerous clunking in and out of gear at low speed transmission issue my car has, and they seem to be smoother shifting as well.  My next major gripe is the sunroof.  Mine has been rattling since around 4,000 miles.  It took me a long time to determine where the rattling was coming from.  Once I found it, I took it to the dealer where they broke more parts and damaged my car.  I've taken my car to three dealers and all they've managed to do was break things and put dents, dirt and grease stains on my ceiling and lie to me and tell me don't come back.  I'm not making this up.  I tried in vain to get support from Audi USA, but they were not helpful either.  So I have a clunky, defective transmission and rattling sunroof and no support from Audi or the dealers.  My experience with the three Audi dealerships I've visited has been horrible.  I've owned two BMWs and two Mercedes and never had issues or outright lies from dealers like I have with Audi dealerships.  Due to this, I will likely not be buying any Audis in the future.  This is a conflicting review.  I absolutely LOVE driving the A3.  The engine, handling, ability to cruise in the snow, and the car's confidence in the rain combined with excellent fuel mileage offset the miserable transmission and horrible support from the dealers and Audi USA.  I really love this car, but It's a mixed bag for sure.  For the $$, I wasn't expecting annoying rattling and non existent dealer support starting at 4,000 miles.  It's a shame the dealers have been unable and unwilling to help me resolve my transmission and sunroof issues.  I will not to go back to the Audi dealers due to the horrible treatment and outright lying I experienced.  I will deal with these annoying problems until it's time for me to find a new car, which will likely not be an Audi despite my love of this car.  Audi USA, if you're reading this, I tried to contact you MANY MANY times about my experiences.  It's clear that you don't care.

 I'm a few weeks into my new 2015 Audi A3 after having had several VW's (Eos, Rabbit, and a Jetta). I love it!! I got white with black interior, premium plus, sports package, and bang & olufsen speakers. I didn't get the MMI navigation simply because I won't use it -- so why pay for it.

I think the most surprising thing for me is just how fun the car is to drive. It's zippy; especially in sport mode. It's definitely not "just another Jetta." The engine/transmission is completely different than VW's, and it really has a lot more power. Plus, with quattro, it's all wheel drive.

It's definitely worth the money. It's very nice; all the bells and whistles you want and need.

bang & olufsen speakers sound great, love the speed of sport mode, the back seat has great leg room (but not great head room for tall people). Love the interior, it's sharp. Moonroof comes standard, and it's pretty big too. The car just drives awesome. I also like its size. I live in Chicago and often we park in tight spaces. I also don't have kids, so I didn't want a family car. I wanted small and fun. It delivers. It's definitely a luxury car at a way better price.

drink holder placement is sort of odd, but not terrible. the car can be a little lurchy at slow speeds, but really smooths out at higher speeds. as mentioned above, head room in back seat is not great for anyone tall (over 5'10"). if you don't like to "feel the road", may not be car for you. This isn't a Buick; it's an Audi. It's definitely low to the ground, sporty drive, feel the road beneath you experience. It's not luxury "comfort." It's luxury "sport."

 I have driven my 2015 Audi A3 for 1 week as of today. I have a Premium and only upgrade is to cold weather package. This car delivers an excellent value for the purchase price and is surprisingly well equipped for a base, entry level model. It has standard sun-roof, leather seats, an incredibly easy to use MMI system and with my upgrade heated seats. Working with my Audi sales rep was a very pleasant and experience and my purchase was made both easy and fun. Trading from a Jeep Commander, I was concerned about how I would feel driving a small sedan again, but the A3 feels confident and controlled. Couldn't be happier!

Near everything. AWD is a must living in a very snowy/icy winter wonderland. Sunroof is wonderful for the months of warm weather we do get. Driver's seat and steering wheel mounted controls are intuitive and comfortable to use without having to distract any attention from driving. MMI is insanely intelligent. I was using the full functionality before even reviewing the user's manual (and I am not a tech person). Exterior LED lighting is bright and ample for twisty 2 lanes at night. Climate control is fuss free. Remote controlled window and sunroof activation has to be my favorite for quick interior cooling of the black leather on hot days!


 I am a fan of Audis because of their design (elegant and innovative), quality (fit and finish) and general reliability (I have not experienced some of the problems with Audis that other owners have). The 2015 A3 is my eighth Audi and fast becoming my favorite. While I had to get the prestige and sport packages to have the car equipped the way I wanted it ($$$) it is well worth it.  I love the styling, minimalist interior (think uncluttered but functional), intuitive MMI with handwriting recognition, and power (think fun to drive, agile and fast). 

The size (it's the size of what the A4 used to be when it first came out); the LED DRLs and tail lights, Drive Select (lets you change the how the throttle/steering/transmission work together); power folding/heated/self-dimming side mirrors; 2.0 engine; comfort of the sport seats; uncluttered interior.  

 Contrary to the Edmunds review of the all new 2012 X6M, I find this car is the best car I've ever purchased. I owned a 2009 X6 5.0 & loved it too, but the X6M...WOW! This SAV handles like a sports car.

The acceleration is impressive. I find the cargo & seating is plenty roomy.

 All my trepidation of owning a diesel in a cold climate have melted away.

 In most categories, I love this car.

I like the look, the fuel economy, it's fun to drive and has a great stereo.

The turbo lag does take some getting used to - When accelerating from a stop, it can take a full second or two for the turbo to engage.

It's very responsive once you've started moving.

Fuel economy is great and overall, it's really a fun little car.

 Traded in a 2008 Prius that had a lot of technology but no comfort. The A3 is amazing and so beyond all I could ask for.  It is very upscale inside and out.  The mpg is excellent and the torque is a thrill.  The Ipod interface allows me to have a lot of CD's in an organized fashion, and the Bose sound is so clear and deep.  The Navigation has real time traffic and a crisp and clear screen.  I love the LED lights front and back.  The car in Ibis white looks very European, especially with the black open sky roof.  The transmission feels like a manual without all the work.  Storage room is a little better than the Prius.  I highly recommend the A3 TDI for MPG as well as practicality.

Navigation, heated seats, sun roof, Bose sound system, Ipod hookup, auto wipers and headlights, MPG, LED lighting, transmission, Practical storage room, ease of parking, power driver's seat with power lumbar, auto door locks

Homelink, rear backup camera 

 I have owned for 2 years and put 55K miles on my A3 TDI.

Bought car for performance and great MPG - commute is 100 miles per day.

With 500 miles left on warranty Mechatronics unit went - first time had issues was 25K miles and dealer did software update. (it's roughly$3,200 repair if out of warranty).

At 54K miles EGR valve clogged with ash - ($800 repair & AUDI offered no help) 

I called AudiUSA and got nowhere.

 Had been interested in purchasing a diesel for some time now but never seemed to make financial sense until the A3 TDI came out.  Only $1200 more than a standard FWD A3.  The Fed tax credit of $1300 covered the difference plus the state waives sales tax.   What a great car!  Love how it drives and rides. The TDI engine has plenty of pull to get on the highway and for passing.  The interior is very impressive with surprisingly amount of room. The exterior looks fantastic especially with the LED/xenon headlights and black sunroof.  Extremely happy with the purchase. Averaging 39 mpg.   Great job Audi! 

TDI, LED lighting, Panoramic Sunroof, S-Line Trim, DSG transmission

Strange climate controls.  

 At 4,000, am thoroughly in love:  Blast to drive, lots of torque, great mountain road control with paddle gear selectors. Plus, averaging 40.8 mpg combined (no commute traffic, lots of freeway).  Corners tight and flat, excellent control. 

Have a split-second lag engaging drive that is annoying.  Dealer says it's built in.  We'll see: I'll ask again at 5,000 service and will check around. Love the styling and color, beautiful camel interior.  No run-flat tires (spare) (I'll own no more Bimmers because of run-flats!). 

 I bought this car used, from a low volume dealer (shady, I know) with 54k on the odometer. It was a terrible purchase, even at a price I thought was great. It was leaking coolant the third day home, and required over $5k in repairs the first year. It was out of warranty, buyer beware, etc. I still like the car. It is expensive to fix, but when it is good, it is really good. Nothing cruises at highway speeds like a German car. Plenty of power, even on a high mileage engine. One thing I learned during the first year of ownership is this: don't take it to a dealership for service, period. You will overpay, in a ridiculous way. Example: bent rim, new wheel: $825. Really. I bought four new wheels and tires on tirerack.com for a hundred more than that, and they were lighter rims, and look better. That is just one example. The best thing you can do is learn to do your own maintenance/repairs and be vigilant. Read the online forums and watch the youtube tutorials. You will have to buy all new tools with a german car though. It is nothing like an American or Japanese car, which I have previously owned. Lots of starbolt fasteners. Even the wheels are held on by lugbolts (17mm) instead of lugnuts, which freaked me out the first time I rotated the tires. Most used car ownership experiences have a few repairs involved, especially once you break six figures on the odometer. For an Audi/Volkswagen, the parts are expensive and the service at the dealership is outrageous. I suppose I knew that going in, but that first year was rough.

The interior is holding up pretty well and it looks like a much newer car than it is. The front seats are supportive and comfortable even on long road trips. The leather has held up well with a minimum amount of creasing and no cracks. The seatback on the passenger side did randomly detach at one point, but I was able to fix it with a pair of pliers and some glue. The navigation system is one of the least user friendly I have ever used, with a very cumbersome amount of effort to program a destination. It works fine once you get it programmed I guess, but I just navigate on my phone to avoid the headache. The bluetooth is easy to program at least, but it doesn't stream audio to the radio. The system does have an input for an aux cord though, and my wife likes the satellite radio. The sound is great.

The performance is the best part about the car. It is a GTI in a fancy suit. Plenty of power to keep the driver entertained and with the S-line sport package you get great steering feel and confidence during cornering. Under aggressive acceleration I get a lot of wheel slip, which is the only gripe I have. Even with grippy summer tires, you have to baby the throttle a little bit. Most drivers probably aren't as lead footed as I am though, so it may not be an issue for most. The transmission is as high end as I have ever driven (manual), with smooth clutch engagement and a shifter that slides into gear like a hot knife through butter - so smooth. It feels very refined, but is every bit the sport hatchback when you want to play.

The exterior of the car has also held up very well. The paint is still glossy like new. The styling on this car was well ahead of its time, and it doesn't look even a little dated. My wife fell in love with it because of the looks, and she hates hatchbacks. I get compliments on it all the time.

You take the good with the bad. The Audi has been a bittersweet ownership experience. Sweet to drive but bitter to keep it running.

 Have had the C-Max for 18 months now.  Its been a great ride, very fun, quick and feels great to drive.  A very good job from ford, everything feels great and such a good job of automating the car where lights, wipers and everything is automatic.  The car is very well executed, although CVT, it feels right and  has good acceleration.   Power and handling both are good up to 90 MPH and above that this is not so fun, making it better suited for  City and traffic, particularly great electric only ride in heavy traffic with out turning on  the engine at all  up  to 85 MPH.  Being in LA, have just done 20,000 miles and looking forward to many more.  This is no prius, the higher seating, weight and drive feel more like a cross between a mini minivan and a hot hatchback (which is very heavy at almost 4,000 pounds).   My best tank MPG was about 85 MPG, almost 1,100 miles a 12 gallon tank and least has been around 65 MPG.   I am due for a second oil change shortly, making it 10,000 interval for maintenance which is always a good bonus.  Not much I would fault the car for, maybe a bit higher ride and ground clearance be good but I do like the ride.  I got the plug in, but the hybrid only ones were more fun, much lighter and sharper rides.   I do have passengers often and the back  seat is very comfortable.  Ford has a winning formula for the car of the future, size, power and the whole package.

 I have owned over 35 vehicles in my life. Cars, trucks and everything in between including a Nissan Leaf. This is without a doubt the best vehicle I have had so far. Great interior and comfort. Great stereo system. Room for 4 tall adults easily. Fantastic visibility. Great power and handling. Fantastic gas mileage. I average between 58mpg and 65mpg on my daily drive to work and back. My only complaint is the huge battery takes up most of the cargo area and for the price of this vehicle it should have a backup camera included but it does have backup sensors. This is a fantastic vehicle and I do not understand why Ford does no advertising on it. I hope they are not going to phase it out because that would be a huge mistake.

 The energi version is the one we bought as the higher price was offset by the government tax rebate - thus the upgrade was free.  However, this is our run-around-town car, so the limited trunk space wasn't a problem.  If space is essential, stay with the hybrid version.  Our car will go about 18-20 miles on the battery only, just depends on the time of year.

 Might be the best car I've ever owned.

 Leased a 2015 C-Max.  One month after the purchase, noticed that the interior trim fit and finish is on par with the late 90s Hyundais. The trim is literally falling apart. Glad that I leased this car instead of buying it. 

Pros :  Roomy interior with a good ambience

 Original review from 2015: I was in the market for a plug in hybrid vehicle, so choices were limited to the Prius, the Volt, and the C-Max.  I test drove all 3, and my favorite was the C-Max.  I chose it over the Prius because it was more fun to drive and had more built-in technology such as the navigation, entertainment center, bluetooth, voice commands, park assist, hands-free tailgate opening.  The Volt had better acceleration , was low to the ground, and had a sports car feel.  Being a family guy, I opted for the C-Max which had a SUV-like look and feel (it is higher off the ground and had better visibility of the road).  It is my first Ford car, and it is fun to drive.  I have been averaging 70mpg on a 50 mile commute to work. I work in Los Angeles and have found many places that supply the 220v outlets so I plug in while at work.

The only negative is the small trunk but that is a small inconvenience I can live with.

March 8, 2017:  it is now 18 months since I bought this car. Now have about 30K miles on it.  My original review still stands.  I continue to love my car.  It is reliable and never had any mechanical or engine issues.  My two complaints are sometimes the hands-free tailgate function doesn't work all the time, and the navigation system is not as good as my iPhone.  It's a bit clumsy to use and can't find some points of interest when I try to type it on the screen.  The voice recognition when asking for directions is not great either.

 I've been scratching my head for the last year (that's how long I've owned my C-Max Energi) as to why Ford doesn't market this car (the regular Hybrid and the plug-in) against the hot-segment "subcompact SUV's" where it is essentially the same size (though different styling), and is cost-competitive (with the continuous incentives) while being so much better in so many ways - quieter, much better passing/merging power, much better mileage, higher-quality interior, better visibility, etc...My spouse has the Subaru XV Crosstrek, one of the more popular subcompact SUV's and while it's a nice car that we like, my C-Max Energi is better in almost every respect, even though I paid thousands less (after tax credit and incentives) than my spouse paid. Other than the lack of all-wheel drive (which I don't care about) and the XV Crosstrek's higher ground clearance, the Subaru has essentially no advantages even though it costs more. By the way, the exterior dimensions of the two cars are within about an inch or so on length/width/height, and my perception is that the C-Max has a higher ride-height for the driver than the Crosstrek, though that may just be my perception.

I think only marketing the car as a Prius alternative (when they market it at all) has severely hurt the C-Max sales, since the C-Max will clearly not win purely on MPG; but it is such a better car in every other way that it's a shame they don't do more to broaden the appeal/category. Even letting it be pegged as a hatch-back/wagon hurts it since it really could fit into a few different categories (my view).

 This is a great car, and I have had plenty to compare it to. I also own a Prius, which I kept, but I wanted a "fun" car, and I got that. I know everyone raves about the automatic, but frankly I love the stick shift. It is very responsive, and once you get use to the great distance the clutch goes in (I am only 5'4") shifting is very smooth!  I have an hour drive to and from work everyday, and this has made it a pleasure!

Styling, manual shift, great pickup, the hatch back (I can fit tons in this car for its size), great sound system.

More features should come standard, rather than as "options", more storage, move the cupholders so large drinks don't inhibit the manual shift.

 I test drove many vehicles for about 6 months.  Between them were BMW 328x & 335x, Acura RDX, BMW X3, Infiniti G35x and Lexus IS 250 AWD. Audi A3 overall had all the features that I wanted, AWD, cargo flexibility, compact size, powerful engine and a good level of luxury.  The A3 is impressive the way it handles. Coming from a previous S4 I was worried that the car wouldn't satisfy me but it has proved me wrong. I like this vehicle more and more as a continue to drive it. 

Smooth power and great transmission. The ride of the vehicle is sporty but not punishing. Flexibility of the cargo space. Size of the car is excellent since I live in NYC.

 When I first bought this car I loved it! It is fun to drive, the stick shift is fast and with a few modifications this car can look nice. Good gas mileage, good sound system. I really like everything about this car except. It has given me so many problems. My car is only two years old now with 40,000 miles and currently in the shop again. My battery has gone bad after only two years! Unbelievable! I replaced the starter in the car twice, once at 8,000 miles and another at 20. Don't know how long Audi will cover it but I think there might be a bigger problem causing it. I also replaced the stereo system because of a malfunction and the windshield wiper sensor (hazard with no ww in the rain

fast, fun, interior design a plus, comfortable to drive. the manual is smooth.

Better reliability! I have an a4 and a a3, the a4 is older with 3x's the miles and it is more reliable! I have had to have the a3 towed 3 times. Thank god for Audi AAA roadside assistance.

 I posted a review after I bought my Audi last August raving about it.  I now wish to retract my raves!  The ride and fun level are all great...but I am burning thru a quart of oil about every 1000 - 1500 miles!  I can't even make it to a regular oil change without the light coming on or me putting oil in it sometimes twice.  Terrible!  I am dumping this thing before it dies on me.  I drive 120 mile a day and can't risk being left on the side of the road, Audi care or not!  I am going back to a Honda or Toyota...loved both!  Too bad, such a beautiful car.

Handling, fun, styling

 With only 5,000 miles on my brand new A3, the power window is broken, the power seat for the driver is broken, and now the transmission is giving problems.  I will never buy another Audi again. This is the most problamatic car I have ever had, worst than the old Ford Explorer.  I am going to ask for a refund.  

Needs new window motors, new power seat, and now new transmission with only 5,000 miles on the car

 In my years of owning different cars, one car stands out as the most practical, the most fun, and provides the most absolute joy when driving. That one car is my 2008 Audi A3 3.2 Quattro with DSG. I have gone from (in order of ownership) 87 BMW 325iC to 99 Audi A4 2.8 Quattro to 02 Audi A4 1.8T Quattro to 05 Audi S4 Cabrio to 08 BMW Z4 Coupe (Sunday car) and 08 Audi A3 3.2 Quattro DSG (everyday car), owning the last two the same time. I was a bit torn deciding between the Z4 and A3 before I moved to Chicago. I decided I just need one car so I had to sell one of the two. Needless to say, I sold the Z4 and decided to keep the A3. Sure the Z4 was sexier, faster, and just had more prestige maybe for the lack of a better word, but overall, I simply thought the A3 was just the car to keep. I am glad I did. I didn't want to regret giving up the A3 again. Rewind back to 2009, I actually owned a 2007 A3 3.2 Quattro DSG in 2007. After two years, Audi offered to buy it back from me, so I did sell it to Audi. It was a mistake because I really missed that car shortly after. And in the U.S. production stopped that year. So I went looking for another but none available -- not the A3 3.2 Quattro. So for some time I had the 08 BMW and I got myself a Subaru Tribeca as my everyday car. By chance I went looking for another A3 again in 2012 and found my now 08 Audi A3. Hallelujah!

This Audi A3 is pure joy to drive. I have gotten out -- without digging around the car first -- of 19 inches of snow here in Chicago in the Blizzard of Super Bowl 2015; I have taken corners in this car that I probably would not dare take in any other car; I have gone up a circular freeway on-ramp at high speed enough to scare (and impress) my friend while he hung on for dear life to the "Oh Sh!+" handle; I have passed many cars on an uphill climb without the engine gasping for air. And what's another thing that makes this car such a delight to drive? It's that buttery and silky smooth dual sequential gearbox (DSG). Whether I'm driving in automatic mode, or sport mode, or manual with the option to switch gears with the stick or paddle shifters, the double-clutch transmission is so silky smooth and quick shifting up and down. Of course, when down shifting it may not feel smooth as the engine will roar down-shifting at high speed, but that engine sound sure is music to my ears.

I know there are other cars that can outperform this car out there. But for the what I get out of this 5-door hatchback -- 250 HP, 255-lb torque, DSG transmission, just to name a few -- there's no other car out there for me. I can now and honestly say, "I love this car!"

 Bullet fast. Sticks to the road like glue. Modern interior design. Awesome sound system. Torque and horsepower to spare. Quattro all wheel drive.  This car is worth every penny, and is truly a driver's car. The A3 3.2 is a total blast to drive. Spent the better part of 1 year comparing the A3 3.2 Quattro to the IS 250 AWD, Infiniti G35, Acura TL, and the BMW 325xi. The Audi is the thinking man's BMW, whatever that means.  Gas mileage not all that great, but nobody buys a 250 hp v6 for the gas mileage... you buy it for the big grin it puts on your face when you hammer the throttle.  I love this car, go buy one now!

3.2l engine + Quattro AWD = unmatched performance vs the competition.  Seats are really comfortable and sound system rocks.  Has MANY standard options (sirius, 6 disc changer w/ Bose premium system, rain sensing wipers, sun sensing headlights, autodimming mirrors, etc.).

Make xenon headlights and heated seats standard.

 This car is all I ever wanted, fast, fun, charming, you don't see as many of this on the streets so it is even more unique.  I call it my bad "boyfriend", I am so in love with it, I can't move forward to another car and I know the car is a lot of trouble.  In a year in half that I have owned it, it had 2 problems, one with gas sensor and seal and today I am having jerking transmission and the dealer does not want to recognize it. I have read forums and a lot of people have experienced the same issue with the same dealer's answer. Buy it, you will love it, but be careful it can break ur heart when you start having mechanical issues. I still love it even that is problem car!

low profile tires, the skyline roof, the Lamborghini transmission that mine came with.  the whole car.

 I bought my Audi about 9 month ago.  It is an ok car overall but very poor quality.  So far, I've replaced radiator, check engine light went on twice, and constantly have to add more oil to the car because "Low Oil" light goes on.  These are just major problems.  It is still fun to drive (when it is not in the shop) but it doesn't perform as new anymore.   Another thing to mention is fuel economy.  I though it would be an economical car.  The gas mileage is great on the highway ( about 29 mpg) and is horrible in the city and stop and go traffic, where I get about 15 mpg!!  Considering that you have to buy premium gas, there's no savings.  Also, the car is very loud and noisy.

Color. Looks. Sunroof. Big wheels and tires. 

Make it quieter (it is a luxury car after all). Improve reliability. Improve fuel economy.

 Like others, I got rid of my SUV but still wanted a "hauler".  I have loved the A3 since I first saw it and the test drive was great.  The car is amazing.  Look out!  In first the tires squeal.  The power (and efficiency) of the 4 cyl is amazing.  The DSG is a great fun.  Once driving, a guy in a Mercedes followed me to a stop light to tell me what a "cool" car it is.  The nav system, while a bit complicated, is great.  How did I live without it before?  Great car.  I'd recommend it to anyone.  Kill your SUV and get this.  You'll be glad you did.  Don't let anyone call it a "wagon".  

Nav system.  Power.  Style (inside and out).  

 Although my Audi A3 is fun to drive and handles well, I am extremely disappointed by the frequency and cost of repairs, and cost of maintenance.

My 2007 A3 has only 79k miles but I have spent about $4,000 in repairs in maintence in the past two years.

That is inexcusable and not something I expected from a supposedly high end auto manufacturer.

Actively looking for a new car.

drivability and handling

 The A3 is a very stylish, powerful, and gas efficient "mini" wagon.  With a chip and performance downpipe, I was able to make 230hp and 263tq at the wheels.  I have the S-Line w/ Technology package 2.0T FSI and some of the major known problems are as follows: 1. Divertor valve tearing (easy to remedy w/ new piston-type revision valve) 2. Burning oil (varies from car to car but personally I only add 1qt per 5000 mi) 3. Clogging intake valves due to the nature of direct injection (fixed by running a catch can set-up) 4. Cam follower wear on high pressure fuel pump (this is a wear item that should be changed out every 30k and check every oil change, only $50 part but VW/Audi won't tell you that).

The gas mileage is great for the amount of power it makes. I average 26mpg mixed hwy & city. On a trip to Vegas, I can get up to 32mpg. Interior materials for the S-line is great but the seats are vinyl + leather and the bolsters tend to crack.

For the late 09 A3's with the 2.0TSI engines, VW addressed the issue w/ the cam follower & Divertor valve but not with the intake valve deposits.

 This is my forth Audi, through All Roads and A-4 Avants. $ for $ and pound for pound the best car Audi makes excepting for the discontinued All Road and the A-4 Cabrolet converible which is some $ 12K more expensive to equip.  I can do 35-37 mpg with a wax job and no head winds, so I can barely eek out 550 miles to a 13 gallon fill before hitting reserve, but if you want to hold 80 mph on 65 mph interstates and zip past some others in the passing lane, the economy will still hold 28 to 30 mpg. While it does not have some of the useless "bells and whistles" of the A-4 cousin, it's all all around functional car with plenty of storage.  Suggest you buy Continental Extreme Contacts, a great all season/snow tire with smoother ride.

Fits my 6'2" frame nicely, pleasure to drive on 500-800 miles day trips, seems like it almost turns by itself like a bobsled by just leaning one way or the other, well almost.

 CD should be like the A5. Putting it inside the glove compartment is poor.  The blind or land change light is excellent !!!!   The change to your songs is poor. This too should be put in your glove compartment not in the instrument next to your hand.  That part should be open to keys etc.  My A5 was far better !!!

 I'm the biggest Audi fan - they're all I drive. When I bought this car I was so excited since it was beautiful and such a great deal. However, as sad as I am to admit it, the car has some major flaws. You wouldn't think there'd be blind spots in this car, but they're extremely dangerous. They designed the side mirrors to look sleek and sporty, but they're so small you can't see much at all. I had to purchase stick-on blind spot mirrors in order to be able to switch lanes. Anyone that drives my car has the same complaint. Also, the wipers don't go hardly fast enough in the rain. There's been times I've had to pull over because I couldn't see in a normal rainstorm. I never had this problem with my past Audis. Also, within the first year it broke down three times and had to go back to Audi to be fixed. The turbo leaked into the engine, a pipe started disintegrating, and a spark plug clogged - all within the first year. I leased the car so Audi fixed it for free but the fact that these many problems occurred when the car was brand new was extremely concerning. Otherwise the car does drive very well and gets decent mpg. I drive mostly highway to work each day and the mpg is from 30-33. The entertainment system and climate control are also great. Overall I sadly wouldn't recommend this car - which is heartbreaking because I love Audi so much.

 As a 40 year old driver, i have had alot of vehicles, mostly American, some Asian. I purchased a 1 owner 80,000 mile 2007 A3 2.0T. It is the best car i have ever owned. for those of you driving arround in American or Japanese cars...you are really missing out on "real driving" this entry level Audi runs circles around the big 3's flagship cars. Fun to drive, reliable, quick, and Quality, Quality, Quality. I will now only consider European cars. And Audi is the best bang for your buck in quality, luxury, style and covers every need. At 80,000

now 95,000 miles it is mistaken for brand new by people on the street. No problums doing 50-70 miles 7 days a week. I LOVE THIS CAR!!

Really comfortable, controls are really driver friendly, everything is right at your finger tips. Other brands heated seats are on or off. Audi gives you 6 yes 6 settings. Open sky roof is awsome. evrything is smooth and presise.

if i had to add something it would be a turbo boost gage. other than that, Audi covered everything!

 Bought the car with DSG, premium and open sky. Red exterior, black interior. The car looks hot, people stare at it all the time. Great performance, great pickup. The   mileage has been great so far, going to tahoe from the bay I avg 29.3, coming down I did 28.5 (i was going a little faster). I'm 6'3" and fit well, don't have a whole lot of head room, but it's not an issue. Wish the trunk was a little bigger so my dog could fit a little better (great dane mix), but folding the seats will take car of that. Too bad it doesn't come with quattro in the 2.0T. I would highly recommend this car, it just puts a huge smile on my face everytime I take a turn or press the accelerator.  

 After having BMWs to Audis (I even did a brief stint in a honda accord, yuck) I found this to be the most likable. I loved my a4 and s4, but due to older age, needed something brand new, didn't want to sacrifice acceleration or comfort. The a3 is noticeably smaller than the a4 of today, same size as the a4 of previous generations. My wife and I fit up front perfectly and comfortably and my 100lb lab in the back. Plenty of trunk space. What attracts me is the fact that it still feels almost as fast as my b8 s4, with the fuel economy that doesn't hurt the wallet. Really the only downside is getting black, I was her a lot. I urge any and everyone to just take a test drive, Great commuter car, fantastic weekend car to the country with the wonderful panoramic sunroof. Skip the nav, your iPhone can do everything anyways. Do get an upgraded stereo. I have basic (audi concert) it sucks when i want to jam I have it turned almost 85-90. Get bose or B&O.

 Great car.  Waiting to see what 2017 has to offer as their standard.

 I absolutely love the way my new car hugs the road when I drive.  It drives like a dream!  The stereo is great too, I can hear it perfectly clear with the top down!

 This is my first Audi. I had a VW Polo before that I really loved and this Audi rides even better (sure more power, better transmission....). My biggest concern about this car is the transmission while maneuvering. most specifically when shifting from Reverse to Drive, it always makes a funny noise and you can feel that something went wrong. After a while you get used to it and if you are patient enough to wait 3 seconds it wont happen. I was really surprise that nobody reported this issue on the previous reviews. Different from what most people say about not using the back seat, I have a 19 months baby that loves to ride with the top down. Yes, space is limited but you have to keep that in mind and use a larger car on longer trips. The quality of the materials are SUPERB!! Everything is extremely easy to use and perfectly located. Driving it on back roads is an awesome and relaxing experience. The short wheelbase, powerful engine and excellent suspension makes you feel like you are driving a Formula 1. It hugs the asphalt on every curve and the feedback from the steering wheel is outstanding. This is my 2nd year with the car and I'm loving everything about it.

 This is a fantastic car with a fatal flaw: vibration.  I'm not talking about the normal "small-car" road feel.  (I've owned a 1-Series before, as well as a Saab 9-3 Aero).   This is car-manufactured vibration.   When I took the car to the dealership, I was told that 3 tires were "out of round."   Audi of North America only approved replacement for 2.  The car is still vibrating at an unacceptable level for a car that costs this much--or really any price above 10K.   I will be calling to have it serviced again.  And it's not just me.  There are vibration issues with a wide-array of A-3's that include various types and in various nations (US, UK, etc.).  Check out: http://www.audiforums.com/forum/audi-a3-12/2015-a3-limo-noise-vibration-214549/page4/       The build quality in this car is simply poor.  How you ship a car with 3 defective tires and replace only 2 is beyond me.   Makes me wonder what else is off that could be causing the vibration.   The car is otherwise great: great steering, good acceleration, great MMI system, nice fit and finish.  But I would not buy this car again, and will never buy another Audi.  Going back to BMW.  "Truth in Engineering" turned out to be "Lies in Engineering."

 This is my first Audi. I've always been a fan of the A3, even before it was changed to a sedan. When the sedan came out, I knew I was going to get that car. Although one of the bad things that this car is always dinged on - The Backseats - I have no complaints. Sure, it's tight back there but I'm never in the back seats so I don't really care that it's small. 

Perky little engine! So much fun to drive. I can't say that I've driven up the arroyo parkway at about 80-90 mph though.... lol The fuel mileage can be better but then again, I live in Los Angeles and it's stop and go traffic at any point of the day. I have gotten great mileage when I hit an open road. Sound system is good. I feel like there's a slight delay on initial accelaration but I may just have to tweak the settings to fix that.

Overall, it's a great car to drive and you get your monies worth.

 I was considering trading my 2014 S4 for a 2017 A4, but the annoying center display and contradictory options packages eliminated the A4. I then turned to the A3, which I had thought would be too small: I was wrong, at least for the way I use my car (mostly local driving, usually only with one passenger). I bought a 2.0 Quattro Premium Plus with the sport package, and it accelerates much better than I expected, nearly as well as my S4 did (being smaller and much lighter helps in that regard). As one expects of Audi, the fit and finish, inside and out, is excellent. As far as driving dynamics are concerned, it is very responsive and nimble, feeling much like my Porsche Boxster.

Given its smaller size, it may not suit those who have to carry a lot of cargo, or those who have to carry more than one passenger. It may also not be the best car for those who drive a lot of highway miles, due to its short wheelbase. Overall, however, I recommend it highly to those people looking for a sporty, high quality smaller car.

 I own this car less than a month so ratings for some items are N/A. No memory seats combined with smaller door openings make getting in and setting up a little inconvenient. The AWD eats up 2-3 CF of trunk space. Car is very well made. Layout of controls is very logical - European logical, and that is a good thing. Best feature - Virtual cockpit. All my nav, media, and car info can also be displayed and controlled independently in front of me in addition to the Nav screen in the center. The center Nav screen retracts into the dash which is better than the more expensive BMW, and Mercedes which have an afterthought I-Pad glued onto the dash. I recommend this car

6.07.17 - after 6 months and about 1,800 miles - PERFECT. nuff said.

 If you want to turn heads, a great ride, and affordability, this is the car for you. When I say great ride, I mean great ride. It hugs the road. It's almost as if the car is saying, "Let me show you what I can do". I was on the highway one afternoon, and the engine was purring like a much contented cat, when I glanced at the tach, and it was around 2000rpms. Then, I looked over to the speedometer, and I doing close to 90mph. It' just that smooth. Of course I slowed down, but jeez! Curves, cake. Passing, let's go. When you get in, you feel pampered, but not overwhelmed. The controls and appointments are laid out in a pleasing and thoughtful manner. Yes, the trunk is small, but are you really going to throw 100 pounds of mulch back there? Didn't think so. I looked at the Mercedes CLA-4 MATIC, and the Cadillac ATS, but neither came close. If you like to drive as much as I do, drive the Audi A3.

 I LOVE my new Audi A3!!  Beautiful to look at ( I have the Cosmos Blue with chestnut)....and SO FUN to drive.  With 220 hp, it has excellent pick up and speed, beautiful sound from the Bang and Olefsun stereo system...and the VIRTUAL COCKPIT is AMAZING!!  From a BMW to a Mercedes... now to my AUDI....love it.

 Picked up an '09 A3 2.0T Quattro DSG in January.  Now that it's broken in & I've started pushing it, I'm very impressed with the performance.  The auto shift is flawless & returns decent fuel economy (about 22mpg in city so far), but when pushed (or in Sport mode), this car can go.  Punch it when you need to pass & you're smoothly up to 80+ before you know it.  Exterior & interior fit/styling have been excellent w/ no issues to-date.  The only minor flaws I've come across are the floor mats (not very wear or stain resistant), how the bright yellow passenger airbag off indicator stands out from the rest of the dash lights, & the lack of small storage compartments for coins or other.

Transmission, performance, interior & exterior styling, build quality, Sirius satellite radio.

Beef up the floor mats. Make the passenger airbag off indicator light the same orange/red color as the rest of the indicators on the dash. Include factory-installed privacy glass on rear windows. Higher quality OEM all-weather tires. Include small compartments for coins and/or trash.

 So much for German engineering; they have not discovered aluminium. All the interior design is in plastic with silly parts that break and are not covered by the warranty. I used the back seat arm rest once and it broke; I plugged an ipod in the cigarette lighter and it broke; the two moon light roof hatches broke; the bolt that holds the spare tire broke, etc. In addition, the car gets a check engine light every six months (and deal with the service people.) It's the only brand that charges for rental car while on service, contrary to what they said at purchase.

Heated seats.

 Akin to what another reviewer described - the A3 is a great driving car, too much fun (as evidenced by multiple speeding tickets).

But... I've gotten to know my service dealer a little too well.

Driver's seat fell apart - warranty-covered fix.

Fuse box melted - warranty covered that.

It's a turbocharged car, so you have to replace the spark plugs every 30k mi.  It didn't help that the injector coil also went out on me.  Ugh.

 I just trade in the 2006 530Xi wagon, love this vehicle, fun to drive, have the SUV high command feeling, but with good road performance. Now I hate my 07 Escalade.

Style, driving position, feels powerful, not so bad gas miles, lots of good gadges inside.

Bigger sunroof, chrome rims.

 It's a great car for the money. I read a car review that said the steering is too sensitive at highway speed. Set the drive mode on individual and set the steering to sport. Problem solved.

Prior to getting this car, I had rented several Toyota Prius models and drove them for months.  They have many plusses: first, they have been on the market for over 10 years so all the kinks have been worked out; next, they have 50+ MPG gas mileage and even higher in stop-and-go city driving.  Also, there are probably 15 variations of Prius to choose from.  And Toyotas have legendary reliability.   So, why did I go for the C-Max, a Ford, an American car?  The two minuses compared to the Prius are it has lower gas mileage - 45 MPG in my first two tanks of gas - and the reliability is unknown – the model has been available for about five years.  Consumer reports has the C-Max 5-10% below the Prius in reliability.  But, I felt the pluses where many.  Listing them quickly:

 Bought this car 1240 miles ago.  Best handling SUV that I've driven to date. I am 6-2, and having to drive from DC to Richmond VA at least once a week for work makes sedans and other lower riding cars tiring on my legs/back. Thus, was looking for an SUV not for cargo space or off-roading, but for the ride and seat height.  With sports package, it is a blast to drive, especially considering its height and weight. It corners better than my '06 TL, though some of it is due to the massive 20" 315 tires on the X6. Suspension is on the firmer side, but supple enough, once again especially for an SUV. Compared against MDX, FX50, FX35, X5, ML550, narrowed down to X5 vs. X6, and picked this.

 My last 4 cars were Priuses, my wife also drives a Prius.  her forst response when she drove my C-Max was, "WOW!"  I wanted a plug in, but the Prius plug in wasn't available yet in my state, so I took a look at the C-Max Energi.  SO GLAD I DID!  I LOVE THIS CAR!  It is better than the Prius in every possible way, except, possibly, reliability, which in the Prius is legendary, the C-Max could be too, just haven't had it long enough to know.  It is faster, more quiet, much more comfortable, and the deal I got was unbelievable (especially when you include the $4,500 refundable federal tax credit!).  I'm also getting more miles per charge than advertised, as much as 28 miles.  You can charge it at home, fully charges overnight, with a regular outlet, as best we can tell, it cost about $20 per month in electricity, and, lucky for me, I have fast chargers available to me for free at my work (fully charges in less than 3 hours).  I have a 54 mile round trip commute, and only have to fill the tank about once every 3 to 4 weeks, and am averaging 74 mpg, so far.  i cannot recommend this car more highly!  Crazy thing is, I never see any on the road?  Ford, clearly, isn't doing a good enough job marketing this car, it blows the Prius away, and I know what I'm talking about, between my wife and me, we've had seven, never thought I'd by any other car.

 Second C max, love the savings!

 This is most rare car in town or city and I hope keep this way for long time. I am from 325is, 325i, M3, 740il and latest, X6. This is most amazing car ever bought compared to previous cars.  Don't think as X5 but PURE 4dr Coupe Sports car! I LOVE the Design and that is all I needed it even though I have to give my wife and 2 children everyday. Still getting used to X6.

 This car has been nothing but an eye catching delight. I believe there has been a conspiracy by BMW haters towards the styling. There is hardly a day I take this car out that I don't get a positive comment,ie. "nice car"; "nice ride"; "I love your car". I have never received more positive comments on anything I have ever had; except my wife! 

Acceleration; road handling; looks.

Built in wind screen.

 We purchased this car new in 05 and it has been outstanding. Not a single thing has gone wrong in 40k miles, it gets 32+ mpg on the freeway and combined mileage is 25-26 -- all much higher than estimated! The free services have been great too.  

The power top is fast and easy.  There is more room in the trunk than you'd expect for suitcases or groceries.  A full set of golf clubs fits too.  Two sets if not too oversized.  Small, so easy to park and really fast to wash and wax. Glad we got both sport and premium packages. 

 Got it with all the bells and whistles after the 335i coupe had to be turned in for a baby livery!! It's fast and fun!! The navigation is so much better than before.  The active seats are a bit much but the heads-up display is noteworthy!!!!!

 I bought my first Z4 in the spring of 2009. My wife and I argued as to who would drive it, so I bought another last fall. No doubt, fun to drive, scary quick, and either a head turner. BMW's reputation for service is second to none. I agree with many people here. If you want to get happy quick, go start and drive a Z4! 

All of them. For a car to go this fast that quick and get this kind of mileage is nothing short of phenomenal.

Yes, the cup holders aren't much. 

 Interior build quality is disappointing due to use of cheap plastics.  Been back to the dealer 4 time because of annoying squeaks and rattles but dealer cannot fix.  The high performance driving experience is marred by these constant squeaks and rattles, even happening at low speeds.  Ride is extremely harsh.  On anything other than perfect roads you can feel everything  down to the road paint.  The car is easily pulled from side to side by uneven roads.  Tire noise is high.  Of course this kind of handling is to be expected for this type of car.  Otherwise, the car has exceptional performance.

Great engine, fast acceleration. Sport mode provides excellent acceleration and smooth, rapid shifting.  Cornering at high speeds is incredible.  Engine sounds great at high rpms.

 I previously owned a 2003 Z4 3.0, and now have a 2006 Z4 3.0si. While I loved the first one, the new Z4 is spectacular.  Press the sport button on the si, and it changes the manners completely.  I always felt that I could have used a little more power- but not so much tha I have no choice of transmissions and pay a gas guzzling tax, like the M.  This is that perfect car.  Until the twin turbo from the new 335 makes it over!

I love the paddle shifting on the wheel, the sound system really rocks, and the M seats (a totally worth-it option).

Where is the lock (so valets cannot access it) for the glovebox-  or better, the center rear storage compartment?  Give me a lock there, please.  Also, the motion-sensing alarm cost $1200-$1400, so make sure you negotiate that at the beginning if you want to park with the top down and have security.

 After 4600 miles, I am thrilled with this car.  It is much more fun to drive than my 2005 C5 vette was, and the interior is quiet enough for conversation with the top down on the interstate.  The engine provides pleanty of power, and I love getting 33.1 MPG on the highway.  The handling is excellent with the sport pacakge and 18" wheels, but it does try to follow road grooves at lower speeds.  The cabin and trunk are large for this type car, but the standard seats are a bit alcking in support and style.  I wuold get the M seats if buying another one.  This is a great looking car that really turns heads.  This is my daily driver and handles wet weather wonderfully.

Power, handling, style, the power top

 I like its looks that's why I bought it.  But the gas mileage! Try 14-18 mpg.  Interior really small.  You sit too low.  Love the power top, but why not hard top like the SLK?  Noisy, too.  The ride is a lot more bumpy than it should be for a luxury roadster.  The 3.0i is slower for sure, I wish I had bought the M class after all.  Come on BMW, you cheap bums, for the money we pay, give us free DVD Nav, Sat radio, more goodies and less rear blind spots. Lose the paddles, who needs them?  They look stupid, anyway.  Give us better looking wheels and a leather wrapped better looking steering wheel.

Power top, but should be metal or switchable with a metal one. Good transmission but car is SLOW. Good looks, but it's not an SLK.

More power.  Add free Nav and Sat. Shorter lease. I have had it one month and cannot stand it.

 We have enjoyed it for the last 10 yrs. Time to move on.

 The Z4 has exceeded my expectations. It is fun to drive and goes where you point it. The quality of workmanship is evident clearly in every respect. It is quiet, with wind noise the largest sound factor. Even the gas mileage is better than I had expected. A small negative is that the display is a bit hard to see in bright daylight with the top down. It is hard to graceful when entering and exiting the car. This is common with roadsters. With the top in place there is a feeling of spaciousness. The trunk is big enough for traveling. Worth the price.

 I am still in shock after I purchased the 2006 Z4 3.0i fully loaded with winter, comfort and sport packages for around $20,000 with 50k miles on it.

I simply would have to search for a reason why buy anything else - including new, newer, or different model sport cars.

With a push of a button this thing performs as if it had turbo or supercharged engine.

The interior, though not Jaguar comfortable, hugs you tightly and holds you in one place to enjoy the show.

Super tight sport suspension can take almost any corner at mind boggling speeds you can throw at it.

 I actually bought this as "Mother's Day Gift" for my wife last year.  She actually gets to drive it once in a while.   The only complaint I have is the excessive noise that comes from from the passenger seat when my wife is riding with me.  "Are you crazy?"  "Slow down!" "I am NEVER riding with you again in this car!!" often can be heard even over the sound of the engine as I shift through the five gears.  My only regret now is that I did not buy the 3.0 for a little boost.

No room for the kids.

Make the next model a one seater so the wife stays home too.

 I am a former BMW salesman. This vehicle was probably the hardest vehicle to sell without a test drive I believe because of the looks (which I savor). Once driving the car, you will be hooked as I was. I can tell you that of all the vehicles BMW has this one and the X5 4.8 are the most fun to drive, hands down. Usually if you wait right before summer they will drop the lease rates and you can get into one for a decent monthly payment. BTW this thing isn't as great on gas as suggested, especially when you drive it like it should be driven, fast. And I am 6 ft. tall, so it isn't perfect for me, but it's not bad. BTW the Auto/ 5 speed steptronic is really fun and much more practical for SOCAL.

Acceleration. The stereo is superb. Controls are well placed. The NAV looks really neat if you get it, but it costs $1800. And BMW NAV in IMHO is subpar compared to others like Acura.

 Being a master diesel mechanic for at a Freightliner truck dealership for  close to thirty years I believe I am a fair judge of quality. I have really enjoyed this car for over two years. When you get off work there is nothing better than jumping into your Z4, dropping the top and hitting the road. I have owned many new cars but this is the only one that is as much fun to drive now as it was when I bought it! If there was anything I would change I would redesign the drink holders as they spill  hot coffee on your leg on turns, the seats should have higher side bolsters so you don`t slide around so much on turns. And get the Xenon lights which was the only option I didn't get. BMW - great car!

 This car is so much fun it puts a huge smile on my face every day! Fantastic blend of power and elegance.  Economical too, I have consistently gotten 27 MPG with mostly highway driving. This car has a sporty ride but absorbs the bumps well, despite the 18" alloys that come with the sport package. You must have the sports package, the standard 17" rims  make the whole car look bland. The red leather interior is gorgeous. No reliability problems whatsoever. No rattles or electrical issues. The upgraded sound system is awesome. The trunk space is good, even with the top down! You can easily fit two suitcases in there, or a couple sets of golf clubs. Buy this car, you won't regret it!

Great acceleration yet also great gas mileage.  Upgraded sound system is fantastic.  Navigation system works flawlessly.  I love this car!

Better cup holders.  Get the 3.0i. I test drove the 2.5, and it lacks the punch you want in this type of car.

 I've owned lots of foreign cars & sporty cars, but never a BMW before & if the Z4 is indicative of all BMWs, I'm a convert. In 42,000 miles, the care has only been in the shop for regular maintenance (FREE!) & that's only about every 15,000 miles. The Z4 is hands down the most practical sports car I've owned. Combined fuel economy is 25.5 mpg. The original tires lasted 40,000 miles. I'm 6'2" & it's comfortable, even for long trips. I drive lots on 2 lane country roads & the passing power is excellent. The Steptronic transmission is fun or easy & I love the sport drive feature. My next car will definitely be a BMW if this one ever wears out!

 The car is good performance wise, fast, fuel economy better than expected. But it is not reliable and poorly built. Had problems with the retractable hood, steering wheel jammed, side windows not going down, memory reset all with in 18 months of ownership. Even today, sometimes when I close a window it goes all the way up and then comes down and one has to repeat several times before it shuts. After filing a formal complaint no action was taken by BMW. I have paid a lot of money for the car and at least expected a formal apology. Will never buy another BMW.

Good speakers, fast.

 Wow! The Z4 is pure driving excitement! The vehicle has opened up the world of weekend roadtrips for me, but instead of using the GPS, I find myself reading a map to determine an alternate route to my destination. The highways are fun, but the Z4 really shines on the back roads. Some words that come to mind to describe this vehicle are; responsive, tight, nimble, classy, smooth and deceivingly quick. Do not expect a luxury ride from the Z4, but expect to feel the road. It is a performance vehicle. That being said, I am 6'2" and once in the vehicle I am quite comfortable, even on long road trips. I am guaranteed a smile every time I take my Z4 for a drive. :-) 

6 speed manual transmission is smooth and forgiving. Surprisingly adequate trunk space, even w/ the top down. Automatic convertible top. Xenon lights seriously improve night time driving visibility. 

With the convertible top up, you will make full use of the side mirrors for side & rear visibility.

 These cars are prone to electrical 

computer problems relasted to the 

Idrive system. If you search the 

Internet you will find hundreds of 

stories like mine.  My Z-4 has stalled 

 This car is beautiful!! Very sexy and sleek. Just looking at it, it drips of performance and wants to go fast. That's the only positive things I have to say about it and why I have kept it but am considering moving on. The car seems to have one malfunction after another with no end in sight. To list a few of the more recent issues that needed to be fixed: Convertible top motor, all abs sensors, new starter and new coolent reservoir. Add the regular maintenance cost such as breaks, tires and other miscellaneous things that just need to replaced and be ready to fork out some serious $$$! This is my second German car and all I

have to say is, "So much for German engineering!"

Exterior Design. Fun to Drive

After forking out big bucks for a car like this I expect better. Better all around quality. Just better everything!

 Let's face it. People buy cars like this for their fun factor, and perhaps for their "cool" factor as well. The Z4 does a bang-up job of providing both while delivering upwards of 25 mpg. It's a bit of a chore getting in and out, especially for a 6'2" guy like me, but once you're inside it's surprisingly roomy if you lower the seats all the way. The power convertible top works perfectly, and the interior is gorgeous. The ride is stiff, but the car runs and handles fantastically.  My only complaint: you have to be careful when parking or you'll scrape the underside of the front cowling.

 I got this car when I finally could afford one and wow it did not disappoint.  I got the SMG based transmission and that thing is a total blast.  I love the car so much that I am leasing a new 07 Z4 3.0si starting in 2 days!  My only gripe is that the Z series is always behind in cool technology that the 3 series has.  No siruis radio. Pathetic.  It's a very small gripe on a kickin' car!

Body shape and driving experience.

Add more of the new technology and put the SMG back into the Z series!

 Excellent handling very responsive. Classic design. Trunk will fit two soft bag golf clubs. Love the power top.   Seat adjustment is superb over my ex '99 corvette. I am able to stand when exiting the car rather than rolling out of it with the corvette.  Very quiet ride with the top up and with the windscreen in place with the top down.  Quality craftsmanship both in the exterior and interior desgn.  After all, it is the ultimate driving machine.

 This little car is a real blast to dirve. I have owned 535s, a new M3, MGB, 442 and numerous fun cars, but none as much fun as this little ragtop. It gives you total feel of the road, which when bumpy perhaps too much. But once again it's a sweet ride. My Z is black with a tan top and while some are critical of the styling, I get lots of "I was admiring your car" and such. The 6 speed is smooth as silk and the 3.0 delivers pleanty of power. I can't wait to test drive the new M series. I can't recommend this car enough to anyone looking for a roadster.And your BMW dealer probably has a demo for you to check out before ordering. Thats what happened to me as a four test drive convinced me.

 just simply a Fun, fast, unique car! i just bought a white 04 z4 with red leather and couldn't be happier! drove a TT for years, loved it, but like the z4 much better because of comfort and exterior design. interior isn't as fancy as i would like, but who needs a GPS when your having fun getting lost driving around! very low to ground, makes for a little awkward "in and out" ... but who cares! gets tons of compliments, looks amazing from all sides. you don't see these cars all over the place which makes them even more unique. great around corners, i live in pacific northwest, and wet windy roads are super fun! ... nice and quiet with top up! 

exterior design stuns everyone. unique! wide body makes for a safe ride, doesn't feel "miata like" when you pass a semi truck. great sound system (bass is amazing!!) 

Interior needs more "bells and whistles" ... but does everything it's suppose to!! ... cup holders are limited ... VERY limited, but thats BMW for ya! ...very small storage in cabin, truck is big enough for everything i need. 

 So I bought a 2004 Z4 with 17K miles on it a moth ago. Drove it from Pittsburgh to Chicago to get it home and it was a blast! Wow! This car is comfy, roomy, powerful, reliable, and fun! The 2.5 has quite the power and I can't really notice a difference vs. the 3.0. What more can you ask for? The prices are very competitive these days for a pre-owned. I test drove a Z3 10 years ago and hated it so I bought a MR2 Spyder. This vehicle tops them both by far. Fairly quiet with the top up, especially for a convertible. and you can't really feel the wind too bad when its down.

Styling, safety features, gas mileage, trunk space, comfort for a sports car. 

 Like a small sports car in an SUV. Road hugging and easy to drive. Balanced perfectly. Guzzles gas because you can't help but drive it hard.

 I've never owned a BMW. However, this car has truly opened my mind to the possibilities of leaving Mercedes for BMW. The car is truly a joy to drive!

 The vehicle pulls which makes the drive very stressful.  You have to keep a firm grip with two hands on the steering wheel at all times....not a luxury drive.  

 I love this car more than my X-5. I didn't need the wagon but wanted the size of the car.

It is a joy to drive.

The active seat feature, power, comfort!

a cover for the tailgate when getting stuff in and out of the trunk.

 The most amazing crossover that i ever had. It's just a space ship. It's perfect. Do not read dumb reviews on how little space is on the back, or poor rear visibility, there is enough space on the back. I'm 6.2" and have enough space. Visibility is good. Interior design  is perfect. Exteriors is unforgettable. Handles like a beast. Completely love it. If you want it, buy it.

 The Active Drive continues to malfunction over and over. This is the 6th time I am taking it to the dealearship to have it fixed...so annoying for a 2013 truck that cost so much!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

 Traded in a 2011 Porsche Cayenne S on the BMW 50 X6 and never looked back. Out handles the Porsche!  Faster by a smidge 0.2 to 60 and 0.3 to the quarter mile.  Turns a corner like a alley cat wearing sneakers!  Not as fancy inside as the Porsche, but so much better outside. The Porsche looked like a Murano in the parking lot.  Starts out with 400 HP and BMW will update the ECU with 40 extra ponies for $1350.00. what a deal!

Power, handling, ride quality and looks...

Update the interior displays.  Install hood mounted plasma cannon to destroy all lesser mortals.

 I had this car for only a couple of weeks and so far I have been having a great experience. I drove the car on several long trips and have enjoyed every mile of it. The car is agile, tight, yet very comfortable to drive. Even though I have the smaller engine there is enough oomph to pass or just have some fun accelerating. The heads up display shows all the turns when the navigation is used so your eyes are glued to the road. Quite a neat feature. Parking is a breeze when you have the camera set at top view. You can see all 4 corners and the tires before it hits the curb. Overall an excellent build car. Kudos to BMW engineers. 

Heads up display, automatic high beam, navigation maps (perspective 3D view), overall style, and limited number on the road

 Before you buy a X5 - X6 drive model, you better check out the extended warranty. My 2011 BMW X6 with only 55K miles is currently at the dealership to have the drive shaft / transfer case repaired .  If not for my extended warranty on the car, I would be out $5,000 to $7,000. I got lucky this time, but with less than a year left on the extended warranty, I'm now serioulsy thinking about trading my car in. This most likely will be first and last BMW, love the car, but hate the cost of repairs cost. Last year, I spent $1700 to have the front and rear brake pads replace.

 I've had MGs, TR-3, Barracudas, BMW m-coupe, Tesla Roadster Sport -- and none are more fun than the BMW X-6. It rides absolutely flat and smooth (the computer reads and regulates the shocks in microseconds), torque-vectoring kicks the rear end around coming out of a corner, and the performance is exciting. It also gets me home up 2000 feet in five miles, around 42 turns, in 4 inches of snow. It will outdrive any SUV including Porsche. When I ran it in an autocross (nobody autocrosses SUVs) I won my class and came in 26th overall -- on snow tires. Don't believe any of the junk you read about this car. It's brilliant.

 I was out shopping today for a car to replace my 2009 Mercedes Benz SL550. 

I've driven sports cars all my life. I like the style, the handling, the thrills. I love my SL but I can only drive it 2/3 of the year because I live on the side of a mountain and there is snow. In the summer, I love to take it on road trips, but luggage space is always an issue and my wife hates highway driving in it. "Slow down!" "Don't pass that truck!" "We're too low to the road!" "Blah blah blah". I know you've heard it too.

Every review I read about the X6 whines on about how impractical it is, how it has no purpose, no focus. They just don't get it, do they?

 I moved into this vehicle from a 6 series and absolutely love it. The 6 is a great car and is a lot of fun so moving to a SAC somewhat scared me but the X6 is awesome. I purchased the performance package so my X6 has an extra 40 horses and it makes the car even more of a beast. I would highly recommend this car to anyone that loves to drive and demands performance from the car.

Acceleration, speed and the looks people give you as they move out of your way. This car is a beast. Love it.

Improved gas mileage but that is just a detail.

 I've had the car for almost 3 weeks now, The car has amazing performance its incredibly fast and very smooth, great seats, very comfortable the stereo is great, overall no complaints at all

Head up display, Trackpad, Ipod Interface

 Wanted to get up higher in traffic for visibility so went looking at crossovers and SUVs.  Test drove the X5 and the X6.   NO CONTEST.  The X6 has sedan like handling characteristics and had better performance.  There really IS a difference between the X5's 3.0i and the X6's 3.5i.   

Beautiful interior, two tone nevada leather.  Love the bluetooth feature, don't know how I got along without it.  The Idrive was easy to master and helpful.  Smooth and quiet on the road.

Fuel economy of course, but my 18 mpg average probably is because of my heavy right foot - had to set the speed limit warning chime because the X6 drives so smooth it is amazingly easy to be driving VERY fast and not notice!

 Wanted to get into an SUV, but not one that looked like all the others.  Even the X5 reminds me of a Ford Explorer.  The X6 fits the bill in every way.  Fun to drive, great to look at, and plenty of room to haul home swap meet and mall purchases.

I LOVE the way the blue tooth works with my cell phone.  Almost forgot what it's like NOT to have it.

 It is far too expensive.  Acura MDX is half the cost and, although not as fast, a better car.  I hope I grow to like it, but right now I can't help but thinking that I could have had more for so much less!!! 

No question...twin turbo.  Excellent acceleration, handling...well, just perfect driving in general.  

Frustrating visibility, too many options and/or non-standard equipment, and...most importantly...way too expensive.  Loved it at first, but now just see it as a mistake.  

 By Far the BEST BMW I have driven yet... had two X5s and a 328ix. I got Black Sapphire on Black...loaded...The X6 3.5i has lots of power, is good looking (a real head turner), rides like a car, sportiness of a coupe, and utility of an SUV. Quality build, quality ride and a really fun to drive! Get one....it's worth it!

Loaded with the Premium Stereo, Blue Tooth with iphone is awesome and clear; shift paddles on the steering wheel; head up display. The seats are very comfortable...get the upgraded multi-contour option...well worth it on a long drive. I love everything about this car. 

 Have driven many BMWs, Porsches, etc.

This is the best combo of sport, fun, function, power, looks, and exclusivity.

Practical?

I coach baseball and this car handles all my gear.

Having had many sport sedans includeing 535, 335, etc, somehow this car handles better and feels more aggressive.

 Outstanding BMW performance; Exceptional styling;

 Haven't owned long enough to comment on reliability.

 I'm a wagon guy. A utility guy. A lover of great handling, powerful cars. I spend my money on cars. To me the ultimate car for the money is a GTI, or maybe a truck if you want the ultimate in utility. But let's say you can afford to splurge on a luxury car... why would you get an X6? Well, first off I have a truck. And a sports car(911). And a wagon(BMW 530). But the wagon is getting older and it was time for a replacement. So naturally I got the X6M as the ultimate wagon. That was a little over a year ago and when it was time to get rid of my wife's third row SUV(Mercedes GL550) for something smaller she decided on... another X6! This time the six cylinder X35i. I was surprised. But this is a surprising vehicle. Don't believe what they say about its storage space, there is a ton, trust me. Like fill up two shopping carts at Costco and fold down the rear seats and watch the X6 swallow it all, space. Which brings me to the X5's cargo space. This is the same car as the X5, just without the tall rear, so in the x5 you really only gain the space above the cargo area where you would stack stuff, and then you can't see out the back window. If you have one vehicle that extra space in the x5 might be important, but if you have a truck or don't usually buy big items you won't miss it. As I said the X6 has a LOT of space in its own right. Also, don't believe what they say about the rear seat room. I'm 6ft. tall and there is three inches of room above my head, and a large amount of legroom. The back seat is actually much more comfortable than the X5's which feels a little like a bench. Now for the good stuff... The X6 is an incredibly fun vehicle to drive. I have a 911. I have an X6M. I know fun. The 35i is a potent engine with great throttle response and a sublime transmission. The suspension is firm, never harsh and entices you to drive this thing like a race car. The brakes are stout. The steering is not 911 or X6M great but it's pretty good and the really the only thing drive-wise they could improve in my opinion. The steering is too light but if you're not jumping out of a 911 or X6M or GTI or BRZ you might not realize that it's not perfect. Want to go off-road? I drove an X3 through the off-road course at the BMW plant in South Carolina and trust me you can do a lot with the x-series BMW's. I go to Moab. I drive Jeeps on their gnarly routes. The X6 won't do that but don't underestimate its abilities off-road, it is very impressive. And the interior, oh my the interior. Wow, wow, wow. Gorgeous. Quality. Comfort. Perfection. The exterior? Well I like it. I don't love it like the 911 exterior, or a Ferrari. But it is different and there is something about this car that makes you take notice. I think it's cool, if a bit quirky. As I said, you really have to live with this vehicle to realize how great it is. One pleasant surprise has been our MPG with the X6. We are averaging over 20MPG in mixed driving with lots of hills. Our old diesel Mercedes GL averaged 20 and we thought that was great. 20MPG for this sporty, gas vehicle is super impressive and I have heard of people getting over 30 MPG on the highway. So if you are looking for a versatile vehicle that drives fantastic and provides a lot of utility while being stylish and different check out the X6.

 We have owned (4) prior BMWs (1 325IS and (3) Z4s) the latest was a 2013 Z4.  Loved the roadsters but needed something more practical yet sporty.  The 2016 X6 was the ticket.  We looked closely at the X4 but it was an odd size and would no meet our needs.  The X6 has plenty of headroom, front and rear seats.  It rides exceptionally well and is incredibly smooth.  It is very agile for its size, trust me I know agile having (3) Z4s and this car is agile.  It moves well, has excellent, smooth acceleration when you need it and is a pleasure to drive.  We have the 35is motor and in my opinion is all you need.  We have been to the mountains with a load for two people and had no trouble so I wouldn't recommend the 8 cylinder and the extra fuel consumption that goes with it.  My wife was worried that she would miss her roadster and she has said now numerous times that she loves her X6, loves how it looks and drives.  The only gripe we have I that it is a little tricky to get in and out of since it does not have a upper handle but not a big problem and you get used to it.  Everything else about this car has been outstanding and far better than I thought it woud be.  Also,  we get constant comments on how nice of a car it is from neighbors, friends and strangers so that is fun.  We own the white X that does not have the M body but has the aluminum running boards.  Hope this is helpful for you if you are considering this vehicle.

 Have owned 3 X5's, a 5 series and a 3 series over the years and have always wanted an X6. When I saw the new design I had to have one. Ordered the dark olive directly from South Carolina. Only took 3 weeks to get it after ordered. Love everything about it! Now, if you have kids and you need more space for traveling etc. then this isn't for you. I drive the car primarily and my wife and I have already taken trips. It's the perfect fun vehicle for a middle aged empty nester like me.

 After owning and driving this car for almost one year here is my take on it. First let me say that I was sold on this car before the salesman pulled over to let me drive it purely  based on how comfortable the upgraded seats were and how powerful it felt on the road. Quiet, powerful, and a very smooth acceleration. The 5.0 or M version is tempting, but really not necessary for me because this car gets out of its own way quickly. It seats five with ease, and unless you are over 6'5" the back seat is perfectly fine, and I have not had any problems filling up the rear with a ton of groceries. I own the M sport, loaded with options that are actually very easy to use and I usually do. The navigation screen is huge and clear.  I like the sloping roof line and M sport molding much better than the X5 or any other similarly shaped SUV. Recently took a road trip (1800 miles) and it was extremely comfortable. I usually swap out my cars every 1-2 years, but I do believe I will hold on to this one for quite a while longer.

 If you want and SUV by one, if you want a sports car buy in.  If you are stuck someone in between and want the best of both worlds, the X6 M sport is the SAV for you!!

 

 Just got the car so it is tough to tell on reliability and long term build quality. However this is my 2nd BMW Convertible and the first was great.  Car is smooth, quick and fun.  It is more a cruiser than a sports car, but plenty quick and smooth.

Motor, Sport seats, IPOD adapter, Hardtop Convertible versus soft top

Comfort Access should be standard, key fob in the dash to push the button? Over engineering at its worst.

 Quick, stable, comfortable, fun to drive and superb cabin atmosphere, but too heavy roadster. Should go on diet to match boxster driving experience. 

 This is my first BMW purchase and I am very pleased with the vehicle.  Driving the vehicle  has been a real please.  The driving and steering response is excellent. The miles per gallon 23.5 city and highway has been excellent.  Too bad the vehicle does not use regular gasoline.  The run free tires are a good option.  However, if low tire pressure occurs, the dashboard only indicates low pressure.  It does not tell you what tire is low. 

Good solid ride and reasonable gas mileage considering the size of the engine. The bluetooth and 4 year warranty are excellent features.

Better tire warranty.  The 4 year warranty does not cover tires.  Run free could eventually become an issue.

 I ordered my Z4 for European Delivery and enjoyed my trip to Munich and the new BMW Welt.  The car is absolutely awesome, 6 speed manual tranny has a short throw, well spaced gears and makes the car more like a classic roadster.  With the hardtop up it is a weather tight coupe.  Styling is incredible inside and out.  Sport seats are very comfortable.  Trunk has enough room for a good sized suitcase even with the top down.  This is my 8th BMW and may well be my favorite.  Car gets lots of thumbs up from all ages.  It is the best looking sports car sold in the US under $60K.

 This car puts a grin on my face every time I drive! Granted the front shield can be polarizing but overall the car is incredibly fun to drive. I had a '08 A4 prior to the RDX and the RDX handles corners better than the A4. And with way more power. Noise level between the two is about the same but the turbo growl on the RDX is really pleasant. I find the ride to be very comfortable, steering with good road feel and the interior clean and functional.

We have a '11 Q5 2.0 and the RDX is much more fun to drive. The Q5 is bigger, quieter and feels more numb on the roads. It doesn't handle as well as the RDX, costs $8000 more comparably equip and Acura dealers are >>>>> than Audi.

Handling, comfort, performance, value, turbo growl.

Front shield overhang

 The RDX was really convenient for the extra cargo space, but it lacked two things that really bugged me. 1.) storage space in the cabin. There was absolutely no where to put anything out of sight in the cargo compartment. I wish they had put more little cubbies to store stuff in. 2.) The cabin noise when you drive down the street. I could hear everything and it drove me nuts! I am a luxury car owner. Before the RDX I owned a BMW, and in comparison I wanted my BMW back everyday. Overall, I don't think the RDX was worth the almost 40K I paid for it brand new. I'm not going to lie, the surround sound and technology was nice, but it's practicality is why it gets a partial substandard review.

 I am so happy driving this car. You can feel the quality. Acura did a great job on the redesign.

The Audio system.

None to think of

 The RDX replaced my 2011 Q5. I bought it because it had more standard features than a Q5, was $5000 less than a Q5 and positive reviews. It is a good car in many respects but the suspension, interior quality and road noise reduction are less that what you expect from a "luxury class" SUV. The vehicle now has about 36K miles and the dealer has had to replace the rear struts twice and fix an annoying drive train vibration. I also replaced the brakes and rotors at 24K miles at my cost - Acura said brakes were not covered by warranty even with relatively low mileage. The repair shop said the rotors were warped and this should not happen in any vehicle with only 24K miles.

 The RDX does everything a car is supposed to do -- it's comfortable, fun to drive, pampers you a little and makes financial sense. It's less expensive than its

 I have owned this car for 1 1/2 years. Soon after purchasing had to have the back shocks replaced (under warranty). The dealer claimed to know nothing about shock problems but the other 4 people that I personally know that have this car have had to have their shocks replaced as well, some more than once.

Recently my A/C quit working without incidence or warning.  When I called the dealer where I purchased the car I was told "maybe a pebble jumped up and put a hole in your condenser". I dismissed this as very unlikely as I had never heard of such a thing in my 40 years of driving nor did I hear, see or run over anything.  Well he was right and since caused by road debris would not honor the warranty.  Repair $750.  I researched this issue and found that Honda/ Acura had a previous class action suit settled in 2010 for 38.5 Million FOR THE EXACT SAME PROBLEMS!!!!!!

 Suit claimed placed  where road debris can hit it easily and thin metal was used. Said "Parts that fail and they know it". 

My husband called Acura Customer Service which is apparently a joke.  Explained we owned a Honda Pilot and CRV previously and purchased the RDX and TSX to upgrade to a premium car. Again a joke. They refused to fix under warranty or even discount the repair at all. Apparently no concern that we have purchased 4 vehicles. NOT ANYMORE!!!!

They apparently are still having A/C condenser failing issues. Any of you Attorneys want a class action?

 The 2013 RDX is the best value for money in the luxury small-SUV segment. While competitors such as the X3, GLK, and RX 350 probably exceed RDX on many or most parameters, a comparably equipped car from those manufactures is $6,000 - $10,000 more expensive. 

If you are considering a loaded mainstream SUV brand (such as the CR-V EX-L), then you owe it to yourself to put the RDX on your shortlist. For about $5,000 - $7,000 more, you get better engine, aesthetics, reliability, build quality, luxury features such as keyless entry and brand cachet. 

Keyless entry, power, drivability, sun/moon roof, interior build quality, lumbar support, audio system. 

Lane departure warning, blind spot warning.

 As an owner of an '08 RDX and a '13, I can tell you the ride quality is much better, don't let the harsh reputation of the outgoing model discourage you.

 Let me start by saying I have owned over 80 cars (yes, but my insanity is another subject),and can easily afford ANY car I choose. This SUV blew me away by how nice it is for the price you pay. As like other reviewers, I looked at X3,Q5,Evoque,SRX and a few others. Feature for feature the RDX was $6k to $14k less and it drives smoother on the road than most of them. Handling is certainly not as sporty then many, but much smoother and more refined. And surprisingly in straight line acceleration it is as quick or quicker than my Acura TL-SH AWD and all of the trucks listed above (assuming the base engines).FYI I also currently own a BMW X3....

Refined ride and comfort, quiet interior at any speed, acceleration of a sports car, gas consumption. Tech package (once I figure it all out).Fit and finish is spectacular. Easy to buy....Acura unlike BMW does not charge extra for ANYTHING except the optional tech package.BMW charges for EVERYTHING, even different paint colors and the most basic options. Reliability.Tires are the best on the market......Also Won top award for future projected resale.

No storage space AT ALL for my jumper cables, tire chains or ice scraper. Passenger seat does not adjust up or down (plain stupid). Some interior parts are definitely not the quality of the Acura TL, like the glove box door, center console and door panels.16 gallon tank is just stupid, should be 18 gallon +. More adjustability on BOTH power seats. Rear seats don't recline.

 I searched and search for just the right SUV and the Acura RDX fit my needs just right.

I was looking for a smaller SUV that was fun to drive, had good gas mileage, the right amount of space, a bit of luxury, and was priced right.

 This problem would not be fixed by Acura.  It got so bad I sold the car for a loss, but at least I am safe. 

Mine and all 2014 models have a front end metal on metal clang going over bumps.

Diagnosed by two dealers as brake pad metal backing hitting caliper clips.

Acura will not fix, dealer has made a temporary fix. Dealers are frustrated with Acura over issue. Dealer says he does not know if this is a safety issue.

Filed complaint with Federal safety commission. Metal on metal will eventually break down.

 This car is perfect!

Traded my '07 MDX for better gas mileage and because I only used 3rd row twice last year. The RDX is so much better than the Lexus RX that I was considering. RX may have a few more options but the Lexus RX ride is "mushy" compared to the quick and nimble Acura RDX. My husband, who drives a BMW 535i, LOVES my RDX - he always wants to switch cars!

The RDX is roomy yet sporty; super smooth, agile and quick. We have 3 kids and they fit comfortably in the back seat (my oldest is 5'7"). I would have like one more option pkg (heated steering wheel, heated 2nd row seats, wood grain trim) but not a deal breaker. We are very happy for the value of the RDX for the price. 

Keyless entry and ignition; Bluetooth interface with iPhone; power lift gate; gas mileage 

Power adjustment for steering wheel; heated 2nd row option; backup camera in color

 Purchased in late Dec 2013 and after 3 months and 3,000 miles, here's my review: 

Ride is comfortable, agility is great, suspension is fairly stiff.

Seats are supportive and comfortable (both front and rear). Sound system is great.

 

BUT... The car has a vibration issue from about 60 MPH on up.

 We've owned Honda vehicles for over 20 years. MOST impressed with every one - with the exception of our RDX. We absolutely loved the car when we first saw it on the dealership lot. Never having had any major issues with the previous Honda vehicles we've owned(2 Accords and 3 CRV's), we thought we'd add a "touch of class" in vehicle ownership. We purchased our RDX about 2 and a half years ago, and now have doubts in our decision. MOST disappointed in that we have had one issue and then another. Our most serious complaints are that with the front end suspension!! As mentioned, in a little over 2 years, we just had our third front end strut replaced. And trust me, being a senior citizen and ex-police officer, we're NOT ones to abuse our vehicles in any way nor neglect what need be. 

As I say, other than that, it's a Honda. We love the handling, style, economy and performance. The last time we brought our RDX in for strut replacement, the dealership shared our views on our frustration and disappointment, but sadly, that's the way it goes sometimes. Therefore, now that we have our car back home and cleaned up, we'll be trading it in - for a Buick. No longer bothering with Honda. Again, it's too bad for us as we have thoroughly enjoyed MANY Honda cars and other Honda-made products(Honda Shadow motorcycle, boat motor and two 4-wheelers) but will no longer deal with the company. Calling customer satisfaction made NO difference - other than "lending an ear". Oh well, that's the way it goes sometimes.......

 I purchased this 2014 RDX AWD Base. Doing comparisons with the CR-V, RAV4, and a Forester XT, RDX had the most bang for the buck as you'd have to load up the former cars in order to match the RDX, but with less power and ride quality. But it wasn't all paradise for me when I had 4 instances of transmission slippage during Jan. 2016. Long-story short, the transmission had to be replaced due to the problem actually happening to the mechanic when he test-drove the vehicle. Also, Reno Acura did their due diligence by also warranty-replacing the rear shocks due to thumping noise that comes from the rear. Now, I bought this car since I heard/read so many reviews of their reliability. As a working student, I need this car to get me through a 1.5-hour round-trip commute to the university, and was quite disappointed to learn of the defects. Repairs aside, I'm now questioning my decision to purchase this vehicle. I'm hoping that it'll get me through college before things really fall apart, and then trade it in promptly. 

For any of you experiencing problems, do your due diligence by documenting the problem.

 After having nothing but great experiences with our last 5 hondas, the Acura RDX was a complete disappointment. Above 60 on smooth highway, its a pretty good ride. But around town in the sub 45 range, it is horrible! Within 3 months of owning it, we had all of the struts replaced under warranty. This made no difference. I don't understand this since it is basically a CRV chassis and the CRV rides quite a bit better. I thought maybe something was wrong with this particular one, but after reading other peoples experiences on Acurazine, this is the norm. Not just with RDX, but all Acura models at this time. 1st Acura I've owned, and last! Traded it in after 14 months, 12000 miles. 

 I own a 2015 rdx brought it from northwest acura, calgary. at first when i test drove it. i felt like its ok should i but it etc it feels ok. i am a very picky kinda person. but trust me after driving quite a lot of suvs out there I felt I picked the right one. yes after driving it for a while it makes me spellbound. How it feels? it feels luxurious, full of passion, road king, people stare at the driver seat a lot.. lol.. sth about acura wont ever disappoint you. but remember No every car is 100% perfect there's a line where u have to call it out ya i can live with that because you love it. :)

 I picked up my new RDX with technology package 5 days ago and I LOVE DRIVING IT. But there are some stupid things that should be in a car of this class.

1) The front passenger seat does not go up causing discomfort for some people and makes them feel like they are sitting on the floor.

2) There is no air conditioning vent in the rear. If it can be in smaller and less expensive cars, I see no reason why this can only have the cut out for it.

3) There is no light in the luggage compartment. That is ridiculous.

Aside from these "small" issues, I love the car but these little annoyances can and should be easily fixed.

 I had a 2015 RDX AWD (non-tech package) for a year. Bottom the rear suspension on the RDX is horrible.  Whenever you drive over the smallest bump on the road the rear suspension "clunks" and transmits the impact directly to the occupants. There's nothing wrong with the car (I had the dealer check) basically it's just poor suspension design. Unfortunately when I test drove the car it was on smooth recently paved roads - big mistake.  Search any of the Acura owner/community sites and you'll see plenty of similar comments about the 2013 to present RDX and the same issue with 2014 - present MDX and TLX. There are other quality issues/non-user friendly quirks with the RDX but the horrible suspension was a deal breaker (and ridiculous for a $36K "luxury vehicle"). I've now sold the RDX - my first and last Honda/Acura product. Very happy with a German SUV now.

 Reliability of a Honda, better interior, really a great ride.  The reliability of the Audi and Volvo scared me away.  The twin turbo/supercharged engines will obviously have thier issues in time, so this feels like the right choice.

However, the BMW, cruises on the open road a bit nicer.  This starts pushing the rpm's at about 80, while the bmw will cruise up to 100 without breaking  a sweat.  There are  minor advantages to each.  Overall, I went with the reliability of the Honda brand.  At 23K miles, it has been a great decision.

Updating; at 30k miles, it is a great ride.  Perfect car for where we live and our needs.  Better car than the MDX which has better reviews,  the Lexus has no visibility and lame Toyota performance, and the Audi and Porsche will be in the shop another month before you can use them again.  Hyundai and Subaru are dangerously underpowered.  This is the easy winner.  Best car on the road imo.

 

 I was originally considering a Honda Crosstour, but also looked at the Subaru Outback 3.6r, lots of 4 cylinder SUVs, the and the RDX. My extended family has had good experiences with Hondas, but poor ones with BMW and Mercedes. 

The RDX quickly became my favorite. Didn't like the CVT and driving exp. of the Outback although it had more space. The Crosstour was felt heavier and had worse maneuverability, although real 4x4. The RDX was an instant top choice on the test drive. I like that it's fast and agile when I need it to be and saves some fuel with the VCM tech. on the highway.

The tech. package has a lot of things I don't need, but the stock AWD has some great features.

Power, handling, comfort, and reliability at a great price.

Needs vents for rear passengers. Get seats to lie completely flat with the rest of the floor when seats are down. 

 My first choice was a BMW X3 or Audi Q5, but the price was about 9K to 10K more than the RDX. The car is sporty, fun to drive, good seating confort in the front and rear seats. Love the surround sound stereo, Nav and Blue Tooth. The voice commands to operate most controls is hit or miss. Have about 3K in miles so far, average about 19 to 20 in town driving. The ride is a bit stiff, but NVH is good. Have owned 4 Volvos, the RDX is much more compliant with impact harshness than any of my Volvos. Yeah, I hate the beak front end, but at least is does not look like the Nissan Joke, I mean Juke. Most Japanese cars lack the sense of design when to BMW or Mercedes.

Likes, turbo is smooth and fast. Front seat room and comfort. Stereo, NAV, the center console is huge, HID head lights are great, very bright. Cargo area is roomy for the compact size. Overall the RDX is fun to toss around, agile.

The 2013 RDX is supposed to be all new, have to see what improvments Acura makes. I would like to see direct injection, seven speed auto, improve the interior plastics, the look is cheap on the top of the dash. Sham on Acura for the hard plastic on the rear interior door panels, cheap looking carpet, a hood prop rod instead of gas struts, no rear hatch unlock button on the key fob for the tailgate, no rear seating area air vents. These are big omissions in my view. In my opinion, Acura does not compete with the luxury SUV's from Europe, they have a long way to go in build quality. Acura, I think is an upscale Honda. A nice car but......

 I traded my '07 BMW X3 for the '12 RDX.

 The refreshed 2010 RDX is a significant improvement over the 2007 through 2009 in the following ways: 1) The ride is more compliant (suspension improvement) 2) The ride is quieter (the reduction in road noise was immediately noticeable) 3) The turbo is quieter from inside the RDX as well as engine noise which is more muted than before. I think they even changed some of the materials a little bit to quiet things down 4) The leather is improved (softer, more supple) 5) The navigation screen is a bit larger 6) USB interface has been added 7) The front grill on this one actually looks classy and more luxurious than the previous front end. 8) Etc, etc, etc. 

Sports sedan like hand handling (reminds me of the 2007 TL), quiet interior and full of Tech.

Better gas mileage, hard drive based navigation and possible a 6-speed transmission (for fuel economy reasons) - but the 5 speed transmission is excellent.

 Researched for 6+ months. Looked at Hyundai, KIa, Ford, Toyota, Honda, GMC, Chevy, Nissan. Drove their small crossovers. For the money, paid under 30, this by far the best of the bunch. Fit and finish is top notch, super quiet ride, great acceleration, easy handling. Had owned a TL several years ago and found this as well built. Cost is 15% to 20% under Infinity, Audi and Lexus. The front wheel dive is as good as AWD costing 2 grand more. Would recommend to all. 

Front seat comfort, lots of storage bins, "base" stereo system is crisp and clear, easy to read gauges, rear leg room more than adequate, covered cargo area, comfortable but responsive, love the pickup of the turbo. 

 The 2010 RDX drives like a dream.

Handles very well especially in the snow.

I loved this car until I've had to make the following warranty replaced repairs...

4 new batteries, Replaced auto start, Replaced Air compressor relay switch, Alternator, Windshield wiper switch and still have issues with windshield wipers.

This sadly, will be my last Acura

 Having test driven a variety of its competitors, including some SUVs up-market as well as down (GLK, X3, Q5, Highlander) as well as being a former MDX owner, my wife and I were equally impressed with the RDX, albeit for very different reasons.

He:

Love the performance, 0-60 in about 6 seconds - very impressive, and surprisingly nimble, a very fun car to drive.

The stereo is equally impressive, sounds great and free 12 months subscription to satellite insures something for everyone to listen to.

She:

 When I test drove the car, it seemed perfect for my height--5'.

It is not. Since buying the car and driving it, I'm having difficulty parking it. I can see over the hood, but something about the front end--length?-- causes me parking problems. Seat height limited--needs another 1-2". Seat belt doesn't lower where attached and cuts me across the throat.

Passenger seat does not go up and down; husband needs a high seat to enter the car due to back problems and now has a difficult time getting in.

Would not have bought the car had I been aware. No push button to lower rear door--have to stand on tip-toe to grasp the handle.

Looks more like a station wagon, not SUV.

 My comments are coming from a guy who has had a 2004 Saturn Vue (V6) for the last ten years.

Very reliable vehicle so far, but not one bringing home awards and has squeaks and rattles all over.

Bought a 2011 Certified RDX Tech Package less than two weeks ago.

Not many sold, so I consider them the few, the unknown vehicle.

Very comfortable seats.

 I love this one - I have been dring Honda Civic, Accord, Odyssey, Ford and others Tried Pilot, New Odyssey, Sienna, Routan, BMW X3, MDX and finally went with RDX Unbelievable feeling Drove - 600 miles around houston - local + highway - avg 21mpg

All

Rear Entertainment System + additional Cup holders in the back

 With BMW, Audi, and Mercedes getting all the attention in the luxury crossover market, the RDX is too often overlooked. I have owned my 2011 RDX base (front wheel drive) for 8 months and love it. You get a lot for your $30,000. Stellar acceleration and handling, all the creature comforts, and a premium feel (though not quite as "premium" as the German competitors). If you want to save a few thousand dollars and still get an excellent vehicle- give the RDX a long, hard look before jumping into that BMW.

If you do not live in Alaska or extreme north east, consider front wheel drive for even a better value. I live in NJ and am getting through the winter just fine with my front wheel drive RDX.

 Mostly a good experience, but small cargo capacity, small place for driver's stuff.

Backup camera not good in bright sunlight.

Nice drive with turbo and shifting, but poor mileage + uses high price gas.

With Honda/Acura reliability, it should be very good.

Would make changes in seating.

 Gas mileage for 4 cylinder is poor and vehicle uses premium fuel. Ride is quite uncomfortable.

 The sportiest of a batch of SUVs available that year: BMW X3, Volvo XC60, and Audi Q5. Excellent mechanical reliability, although a couple electronics issues with the side-view mirror.

 I bought this car as a graduation gift for my self! I already have 25,000 miles on the car drove all across the country. So far the ride is fun. Cabin can be a bit quieter, awesome 4 awd handling it's fun to drive in rain and snow. Fuel economy is excellent on hwy (24) but not good in city (17- 18). Interior materials can be of better material. Plastic used is of low quality. I love the seats though. Climate control, audio, back leg room and cargo space very good. I would suggest this buy over a crv, rav4 or Forester any day.   

4 AWD, leg room, handling, power, seating comfort

auto off lights, compass on rare view mirror, quieter cabin, better city MPG, better quality interiors, 

 The dealer would NOT allow us to take on highway; now I know why.  The ride is so bumpy that you feel sick to your stomach.  We can't get the sports suspension changed because it will cause the warranty to be invalid.  I should have walked away after being jacked around by the dealership with agreeing to match printed price of others; and then hemm & ha for 5 hours trying to figure out how to get out of that one.  I should of, could of, and didn't; so now I'm stuck with a vehicle that makes me throw up on bumpy highways or gets us dizzy.

STYLE

SUSPENSION

 This is a jazzed up Honda at best. By no means does this truck have a true level of luxury, in fact, an Accord V6 may be more luxurious. That being said, it's all about performance in the RDX, and a fun factor that you will not find in any other smaller SUV. The RDX is the best driving small SUV out, it's faster, handles better, and has fantastic steering - new editions like the Q5 will give it a run, but its price keep it from being shopped together.

Turbo that works - minimal to no lag, strong acceleration, sports car moves, SUV carrying capacity, great back seat - more room than what appears, sports car suspension (it's stiff - too stiff), SHAWD works.

 We wanted a AWD vehicle to travel in winter to Northern NV and Sierra Nevada mtns. We wanted a small SUV.  We loved the CR-V but it was a Dog (4 Cyl.) and the Rav4 was stylish 10 years ago, so we checked out the RDX.  It has impressive quickness & handling and it's really fun to drive.  What we didn't expect is the gas mileage.  We have only gotten 17 mpg in town once and highway isn't much over 20.  On long trips be prepared to gas up frequently (and always with premium). Overall I really like the SUV and the fact that the turbo doesn't lose power with elevation.  Know what your buying -an AWD SUV w/ a turbo- and accept that you won't get great mileage.

Sound system is great.  Clean exterior styling. Handling is much better than any other small SUV we drove and acceleration makes it feel more like a sports car.  No rattles shakes or other integrity problems so far.  Dealership has been great.  Love the 4 year bumper to bumper warranty.

More sound insulation to quiet the ride.  Remote tailgate should be available. Upgrade the interior style -the plastic is tacky and the radio controls are cheap feeling and hard to reach while driving.  The navigation screen is very hard see during the day in bright sunlight. 

 This is not the luxury car that Acura should be selling.  Unlike other Acuras, the vehicle does not have automatic headlights, a basic safety and convenience feature available on similar, and many far less expensive cars.  The gas mileage is far less than advertised.  It is very difficult to open the rear door.  The instrument panel, particularly the radio controls, are poorly designed and difficult to use.  While the turbo engine is very good and the ride is decent, the car is not what I have come to expect from Acura -- they should be ashamed.

 Rough ride, poor interior quality, way too expensive to be this bad . So sad it is such a sorry ride and quality.

 I absolutely adore this SUV! I drove a mid-size sedan for many years and it did take some time to adjust to the RDX. The tilt down mirror on the passenger side is wonderful when backing.  The interior is well laid out with all of the controls within easy reach.  The center console is deep - it holds my large purse with room to spare. The front seats are comfortable and there's ample knee space in the rear with the front seats all the way back.   Ride is firm - you feel some of the bumps and hear a little road noise, but the fun factor outweighs any of this.   Fits my small family perfectly. Represented an excellent value for the money compared w/competition.  Currently get 19 mpg city.

Sporty feel, leather seats, AWD, center console, convertible cargo area, moonroof.

Minor things:  Auto-dimming mirror should come with compass and  outside temp so other passengers can view info.  Put a manual trunk release near the fuel door release on the driver's side. Leather shift knob should be standard. 

 It's been 2 great years since I first picked this baby up. The biggest reason for choosing this car, is because the 2.3 liter engine from Honda is only used in the RDX. The small turbo is also very peppy. There's virtually no lag - VTec kicks just under 4k rpm. Unfortunately, the drop in peak power is very noticeable. The ride is stiff, but supple. Just enough to feel confident without suffering back pains. I put regular gas for 1k miles recently, and to my surprise, there was no loss in power. But, there was loss in the stiffness of the steering wheel. Regardless, I advise premium gas. The brakes were the biggest disappointment. They feel like they stop 60-0 in 130-140 ft. 

Instant turbo boost. Smooth transmission and great sport gear ratio. Absolutely love the huge center console - when you open it, it's big, then you open the divider and it doubles in size. SH-AWD came in handy during last year's winter as well. Had to drive a stretch of 50 miles in a blizzard, and the car was able to cruise at 50mph, until the trucks stopped my trekking.

 Front struts, valve cover gasket, tranmisssion seal, front end grouments all needed replacement at 25,000 miles. Has issues with vibration in convertable top also. Both rear rims cracked due to poor manufacturer process. Too costly to drive.

 I took BMW Performance Center delivery of my 2011 Z4 sDrive 35i. That means that for four on-track hours BMW race drivers taught me how to explore safely the limits if a Z4 identical to the one I was purchasing. That experience and teaching has made my ownership much more pleasurable and rewarding than it ever could have been otherwise. I cannot recommend it too highly. The Z4 is a classic roadster and as such is completely at home on the country roads and Blue Ridge Parkway of my home state. The exhaust note is wonderful, nostalgic, echoing Healeys of old. The engine power is more than adequate and the driving experience, top up or top down, is immensely pleasurable. BMW got this car right!

 Purchased a CPO Z4 sDrive35si with all the options and limited edition interior... 25k miles.  This car is a smile making machine!  First, I drive in the real world, not a test track.  If you can make this care misbehave in a turn, you're going too fast for real roads!  It is super tight and sticks to corners like glue!  Heart pounding and big smile!  The most amazing thing is the power band never quits!  Ever hit a golf ball just right and watched it rocket away only to see it get a second blast of power!  That's the Z4... You punch it down and it blasts off, hits 110mph in a flash and then blasts off again!  It wants and has so much more!  All this in a comfort that no Boxster can provide.

The 335hp turbo is amazing.  Put it in Sport mode and hold on! The comfort level is refined.  Automatic convertible top is worth the price of admission in itself!  When the top is down, you will turn heads everywhere.  It is much more visually pleasing than most of it's competition.  From the driver's seat, it feels like an old Jaguar XKE... The hood goes on forever! Controls are clean and for the most part driver friendly.  The seats are a stand out!  You don't want to get out once you're in.     

So the trunk is super small.  With the top down, no golf clubs.  Even with the top up it's a squeeze.  You have to run premium gasoline in it, but at least it get decent MPG in normal modes.        

 I recently got the 2011 z435i with the 7 speed automatic, premium package, sport package, premium sound.

It combines luxury, style, and performance better than any other car out on the road. It has a distinguished look and gets a lot of attention on the road.

 Purchased in April 2011:

Running board fell off! 2 days in shop (of all things, they cant get this right?!)

Engine stalls at low rpms. 4 days in shop

Roof leaks. 21 days in shop

Creak in rear suspension. 6 days in shop and still counting... 

 Sporty and comfortable roadster with great build quality and materials. Seats are amazing and power is very good on the 4 cylinder model.  

The hardtop takes kind of a long time to put up and down and draws a lot of attention so not as quick as a softtop but it's much more secure and gives the car a nice dual personality with the top up vs down. Rearward visibility is among the best i've seen with minimal blind spots and great mirrors that auto dim at night.

 We traded in a baseline model 2003 Porsche Boxster for this 2012 BMW Z4. Everything about the Z4 blows away the older model Boxster except handling. While the Z4 is still stellar on hard turns due to its Sport and Sport+ suspension modes, it weighs 500 lbs more than the Boxster and feels like it'll fishtail if you don't have excellent control of the accelerator. The Boxster felt like it was pulling you around corners. The Z4 makes you have to pull it around corners. Subtle distinction, but noticeable. Definitely don't regret the trade in though. The looks, sound, power, and technology of the Z4 are phenomenal.

 I have only owned this Z4 for two months and love every minute I have owned it. I had  2006 z4, the 2009 is a much nicer car,looks, ride, comfort handling it is awesome. Build quality is excellent. It is one of the sexiest roadsters ever built, I had a car collector friend of mine tell me that nothing large colection of exotics looks any better the new Z4. I chose white with black leather. 23 mpg city and 31 mpg on road trips. The most fun car I have owned including two porsche's.

looks, looks, looks. Build quality, fit and finish, power, gas milage, comfort, user friendly navigation system. Fun to drive

Trunk spaced with to down, regular tires with a spare.

 In my younger days I owned two MGs and 2 Vettes, those cars don't hold a candle to the Z4.  I have had the car a little less than a week, unfortunately I can't drive it everyday because I need my Prius to get into the HOV.  The car handles superbly and is very comfortable.  The 30i auto is still fast and saves some money.  Amazingly the car looks as good with the top up as with it down.  Upgraded stereo, it rocks.  I have all of the packages except the convenience package, car brought from another dealer and did not have the package.  I guess BMW has really improved the iDrive, it is fun to use coupled with voice commands, it will only take a couple of years to learn how to operate.

Folding mirrors, auto sensing wipers, stereo, ipod adapter, uploading CDs to hardrive, incredible look inside and out, top up or down, Kansas Leather, hardtop convertible, OK everything about the car.

 After my 08 Z4 was totaled by a teenager, I made the mistake of driving this car. This engine paired with the 7 speed transmission is the best drive-train I've ever driven, and that includes owning a Vette, Boxster, Jag XK, and my 08. My research showed an all-too-common complaint with the fuel pump failure and oil overheating. Knowing this, I still bought this car. I may regret it someday but unlike most modern muscle, this car gives you mega-power below 2K revs and keeps it through 5K with little or no turbo lag. Compare with the M3 which gives you almost nothing until you hit 4500 revs. The M3 may be the better track car, but I drive on the street. Nothing else can match this Z for daily use.

I'm normally a manual transmission snob, but the 7 speed steptronic gets the most out of this willing engine. The experts show only .1 second faster to 60 with the 7, but to me it feels much stronger. Combine the White Alcantara with the Deep Sea Blue metallic and 18 inch (293's) and its show car slick.

Reliability. I normally avoid turbos but I cant resist this one. Although the bad press allowed me to drive this $46K blue missile for a song, I can't enjoy it as much as I should, fearing the worst. I'll write back and change the rating if my fears are realized. Until then, get out of my way! 

 Just purchased the re-designed Z4. I have owned three Z4's, kept trying to talk myself into liking the previous version, to no avail. The new Z4 is a winner. The interior is roomier both in length and width, which is great for my 6' frame. The 3.0 has plenty of power. The only options I got were auto and heated seats. The body is rigid but not abusive when driving. Easily a commuter car. The styling is flawless - be prepared for people staring at you. If you can find an '09, grab it, BMW is giving a $5000 cash rebate if you finance. Mine had a sticker of $49k and I got it for $39,300!! Can't' wait for summer! I turned in a Lexus IS250 Vert - Lexus = fun to RIDE in, BMW = fun to DRIVE!!

Hard top is tight, very quiet to drive. Standard Xenon's look great. Plenty of trunk space for a 2 seater. Overall design is stunning!

 This car is nothing but fun to drive, the steering is a little startling on grooved or rough pavement, Sports Package). Takes off in any gear even on the interstate. MPG is amazing for a performance car of this caliber. If you can afford one, go and buy one. Best to get a CPO as opposed to buying a new one, save some serious cash. Mine had only 19K on it. Make sure you get the SI model as opposed to the i the difference in horsepower is worth it. Watch out for cement bumpers, get too close and you will mess up that one piece front bumper. Also watch out for pot holes, not much clearance on the underside.

Styling, not too many on the road. serious handling and performance. Heated seats. Xexon lights. MPG is great. Smooth short shifts.The handling is nothing short of unbelievable, like the tires are glued to the pavement. For a sports cat trunk is good size. Power top is great!.

Run flat tires are very expensive and hard to get, 400 bucks a pop. Other than that this car is a winner, had vettes, camaros, TR6, can not beat this cars wow factor and the smile it outs on your face every time you drive it.

 WOW! I replaced the Bridgestons RF (run flat) tires, with Michelin Pilot Sport ASXL. The ride with the sports suspension, improved significantly, and eliminated the jolting, without compromising the handling. As a bonus, it may enable me to use the car year around in Upstate NY, without having to invest in snow tires, and if I can get even close to the projected 40K miles tread life, I will be even happier.

Engine and brakes.

 I am a mother of four kids whose oldest one just got her license - so we are a three car family. But who needs three big cars? Not us! I work full time and drive frequently for work - and this car brings a thrill to even the most mundane errand. I finally got a toy for myself, and I have no regrets whatsoever. The mileage is good and it is incredibly fun to drive - I am the envy of all my friends. I think it is a BEAUTIFUL SEXY car and I will be in tears when the lease is up. Might just have to get another one! 

Its looks - I smile whenever I walk out to the parking lot. The automatic top, the heated seats, and the convenient iPod jack. The trunk also fits more than you think! 

Radio could be louder, also cup holders (yes, I know - this ain't no minivan!) position drinks right in front of heat/air vents. But I love its design so much that I hesitate to mess with anything. 

 It's actually my first time writing a review on a car, I was looking for a sport cart 8 months ago. My first choice was a Porscha Cayman S with a manual transmission. I am not going to bring back the whole Porscha vs BM discussion but let's say you will have to try the car to know what you really want. I did love the Porscha but couldnt resist to test the Z4. My only concerns about the Z4 was the look and I really didnt like it in the beginning cause all I could find here in Canada was SoftTop Z4. The driving experience of the Z4 3.0Si was magic yes I said it MAGIC. You do feel like you're driving a beast, nervous and everytime you step on the pedal you get the "push" of adrenaline...

As I said my favorite features in this car is the driving experience, I finally bought the Z4 3.0si Coupe with the Sport package. To be honnest, I never really pressed on that button since I got enough sport feeling just by driving it. One of my favorite features is the wheel response. When you turn, YOU turn and control it is.

 As someone who has owned many BMW's I was curious as to how this stacked up vs. my 428I. I thoroughly enjoyed the car and wish I had purchased it vs. the 428!It rides and handles better and is a much more fun car vs. the 428.

 This is a pure driving machine. I have loved roadsters my entire life. I love to drive and feel the road beneath me. This car is amazing and I will have it until they take the keys away!

 Be prepared for people to have opinions about this car! Some neighborhood wives will disapprove silently, some neighbors will love it. But I have also been stopped to ask "How do you like it? I've thought about getting one too!" It will turn heads. But, regardless, I love the feeling I get driving this car!

 After every drive I tell my wife, "I really enjoy that car". It is a roadster, not a luxury sedan. It's firm, but compliant for a roadster, even in sports and sports+ modes it's not terribly rough... for a true roadster. Having said that, it's very *easy* to drive, but when you get on it, damn, it becomes an entirely different beast.   I love the hard top - both the functionality and styling are incredible. With the top down, let even more good times roll! I highly recommend the sdrive 35i as the torque, overall performance, and the wheel-tire combo is much more suitable for this type of car.

 I was initially hesitant about buying a roadster, but after owning this for two months I wished I had purchase this sooner. Make sure you get the stick shift because that's half the fun. Also get the sports pkg with the sports mode and upgraded wheels. The sports mode provides livelier accel and steering. When driving the Z, the car is truly one with the driver (me). 

THX certiifed stereo, sports package wheels (very cool), power roof, iPod adapter thru the steering wheel (option well worth the cost), good-size trunk, stick shift.

Cup holders, more storage space in the cabin, and longer range for the remote.

 This review focuses more on the bad... fragile paint (scratches too easily), mostly plastic (can't wax out those scratches), annoying beeper (won't shut up for 1 minute, no chimes!), seat belt can't be adjusted (irritates neck), runflat tires sensitive (added air twice in 4 months), 6 speed manual doesn't shift smoothly, doesn't hold value (depreciated $13K < 4 months, so I'm stuck!), steering keeps driver way too active, ride quality on rough roads is unacceptable (feel every imperfection!), noisy with roof up, rattles.  BMW engineers have ruined this car! Our 2003 Z4 was superior!  Yep, I have high standards, especially when I pay $47K+ for a new BMW!

Brake hold, speed sensitive volume control.

 When the worst thing you can say is that the cupholders need to be redesigned, you're on to something.  This car is a head-turning, sleek machine with incredible control and power.  Great fun to drive.

All of it.

Cupholders.  Entrance and exit from vehicle not for the elderly.

 Wow, I compared this vehicle head-to- head with Porsche Boxter & new Audi TT.  The classic design along with BMW safety and technology won me over hands down.  

Besides the styling, simple to use hands-free Bluetooth, awesome leather, acceleration that pulls effortlessly, I feel very safe.

 I'm having the time of my life driving this car.  I'm a short (5'3") female and this is the first car that I feel I really fit in.  It looks fabulous, drives great and has provided the best driving experience I've ever had. I've taken it on 2 road trips (one 500 miles, and the other 700 miles) and was amazed at how my back didn't hurt after. My only heart burn is the large lease payment that I make every month.... other than that it's great!

The exterior - I really love the automatic soft top.  The heated seats aren't too shabby either.  What the heck - I love the whole car!

None.

 This is the most enjoyable car I have ever owned. I got my 07 Z4 Si on a 2 year lease. After 18 months I had a lot of miles left because I also owned my last Corvette and can only drive so much. My wife and I took a 2100 mile road trip to Disney World to use up some miles. When we got back, I sold the Vette and bought this car off lease. I now have just over 4 years in the car and now that the original warranty has expired I have made an extensive search for a replacement. I CAN'T find anything I like better so I'm keeping it. It gets over 30 mpg on the highway and the sports car ride is tight but never abusive. I would recommend this car to anyone looking for a genuine sports car.

Exceptional handling, Braking that surprises people behind me, Very good fuel economy, Better than expected ride for this type of car.

 Great car, love the styling; straight-six sounds great and the manual gearbox is super-smooth. Love the seating position, as well as the interior space with the easy-folding top up. Very nice to drive, the car is very communicative and gives you lots of confidence, brakes are amazing and stop the car with little drama. My only complaint is with the interior build-quality. The one-piece door panels are great, but the steering column is tilted, a cup holder is broken (I don't even use them) and the transmission tunnel plastic trim squeaks when you rest your arm on it. Besides that, everything you touch is of high-quality and just driving it takes your mind off its few squabbles.

Sport button that lessens the assist for the steering and allows for great road feel as well as a more sensitive throttle. 50.1/49.9 weight distribution. Revolutionary design and classic roadster proportions.

Interior build-quality for base models. 

 When the Z4 came out to replace the Z3, I thought they ruined the idea.  It's a much different car and when you drive it, you can forget about the Z3.  The lines on the car all seem to fit and have purpose, even though I'm not a fan of the Bangle designs.  I bought the Z4 3.0si convertible which is a fast car and looks unbelievable with the sport package and 18" wheels.  The sport package completely changes the look and driving of the car, it's a must.  It's fast enough even with the auto trans which has the paddle shifters.  The extended leather and premium M seats are a must too.  All the options raise the price, but if you're seriously considering this car, cost is not a concern.  

Just about everything on the car really.  The lines of the design are great.  People stare at the car as if it cost twice what it did.  Out performs 95% of the cars you'll pass.  Interior makes the most out of the space the car has, quiet even at 75 with the top down.  The Sport package is a must!

 the good stuff - overall a very nice ride. Good safety tech, stereo, looks and power. Stable at speed and good mid range power. Lane departure warning and adaptive cruise control are a great feature. Looks are very good. Stereo sounds very good. Seats are excellent, heated and cooled. dual zone climate control.  Several of the electronic features are very helpful.         The  not so great stuff - Transmission hunts a bit at low speeds on occasion, the nav system is a pain trying to use voice recognition to get a location. Still cant figure out how to just enter an address manually. Mileage is not as good as I had hoped but, mostly city driving so far so may improve.  It came down to this and a Lincoln MKC with 2.3 turbo. the Lincoln was faster and more luxurious but, went with the Acura for better resale value.

 This is a really great car.  I got out of a BMW X5 for this one and the RDX is way better than my old bimmer.  The main thing I was looking for was a silky ride with a very quiet cabin.  I get both with this RDX.  The power train is exceptional with the standard v6.  The cabin is very quiet although some what less so than Edmunds reviews said.  Where Edmunds gave it an "A" - I would say it's probably a "B" or "B+".  It is quiet at low speeds but gets louder on highways.  As a plus, the ELS stereo on the Technology Package is an incredible system that makes the feint noise go away, replaced with beautiful music.  Navigation system is lame, use Google maps instead.  Edmunds says the screen controls for the tech is "confusing" but I disagree.  If this control panel confuses you, you probably shouldn't be buying something called a technology package. Love this car.  It's the best I've ever personally owned.

 I took delivery a few weeks ago and am very happy with this decision.  I looked hard at the Audi Q5, Lexus F sport, Infiniti Q50, Mercedes ML, Honda CRV, Range Rover Evoque, BMX X3 and Porsche Macan.  When you put them all together and try to evaluate performance, reliability, value, and comfort, the 2016 RDX came out on top.  I look forward to many years with this vehicle.

Dashboard layout and overall interior and exterior styling

I bought the upgraded aluminum wheels.  Just wish those were included in the Advance package model I purchased

 This is our 3rd RDX and I must say the 2011 was best the best handling and most fun to drive although kinda choppy. I liked that, wife didn't. We got the advanced package and the tech is way much and rather complicated for her. It's her car and she likes it. Got the advanced because of parking sensors front and back and nicer rims. Biggest complaint was the lack of color selection (did away with silver-now slate silver BLUE) ugh. Bought the white. Almost went to BMW because of that. Interior selection also limited, parchment only with white, no black.

 They still insist on a 16 gallon tank, way too small considering mileage has been about 21. Always stopping to feel up. Took a small 200 mile trip and still about 22.5. We've never had an issue with an Acura product and love our dealer. Have a 12 TSX and 14 TL SHAWD as well. Love them all. 

In retrospect tech would have been fine at 3000 less. And yes she would buy again.

UPDATE Have now had this vehicle 7 months and still not sure of the tech stuff and not liking most of it. Hard to see buttons and writing on them. Find myself searching all the time. Dual screen is foolish, makes no sense and is distracting while driving and hard to see in sun. Stupid that you cant operate phone book while driving. I guess designers think it's safer to pick up a phone and start searching. My 12 TSX and 14 TL both tech so much more user friendly. Find myself looking for those keys when heading out. Wife can have this thing, doesn't bother her because she ignores tech anyway.

 Great ride. Dont take that as its a sports car, its not. Just a great cruiser and if you want some fun slip it to sport and use the paddle shifters. Biggest complaint is the voice regonition. Only had it a month but it takes some work to master, and i havnt , and not sure i ever will. Best way is to put in an address before you leave, trying to find a certain restaurant etc on the go gets frustrating. I get better mileage than stated which is a nice surprise. Love the blind spot detector and the backup camera is awesome, really gets a wide view which is great. I am not disappointed with this suv at all, just the oppisite. Best bang for your dollar by far. Oh yeah the seats, especially the cooled option are the most comfortable of all the higher end SUVs, at least for me. Everyone has a different butt and back but for me its like sitting in my lazy boy.

 Purchased on end of August, only drove 799 miles.  After got new car, on the way back to  home, felt vibration, sent back to dealer, changed four tires.  Still feel vibration at 75 to 80 MPH speed, sent back again, mechanic checked it and felt the vibration, The mechanic also tested driving the dealer's loaner car (same model), he felt this loaner car vibration too. service department manager told us that manufacturer know this problem, we have to live with.  very angry!!!

 The ride is smooth and quiet.  The styling is classic contemporary.  The cost relative to other cars in the class couldn't be matched.  The only thing I don't love is the touch screen controls for radio and the voice command system is hard to figure out and frustrating.  Other than that I am loving my new car.

 I did a lot of research and drove quite a few cars and couldn't find anything that has all the TLX has to offer.  It's comfortable and sporty at the same time.  I love the technology and the ability to stay connected.  For the price the European cars are far behind.

 There are higher performance cars out there, as well as ones with more plush interiors.  But for a perfect blend of sportiness, quiet, smooth ride, comfort, tech features and outstanding stereo system, and cost, I found the TLX to be the perfect car for me.  So much intelligence and consideration for the driver went into this car.  I got the 4 cylinder, 2.4 liter, dual clutch 8 speed transmission with Tech Package, and I highly recommend it to anyone looking for a practical but enjoyable blend of sportiness, luxury, and affordability.

 I currently have an '06 TSX.  It is still in great shape and handles great, but it is 10 years old and I'm looking for something with a little more power.  So I've been eager for the TLX to come out.  So I was severely disappointed when I test drove the V6 AWD version.  The transmission completely neuters to V6 - seriously, it feels  like a really under powered 4 cylinder.  It has no power when you put the pedal down.  It shifts just just when you think you are going to get in the power curve.  My 4 cyl TSX feels more powerful than this V6.  There is NO WAY I would want this driving in rush hour traffic, when you need the car to quickly react when trying pass or merge into highway traffic.   The steering was...weird.  I've test driven the Lexus IS 350 (V6) and the Volvo S60 (5 Cylinder turbo).  They both had better throttle response and steering.  The Volvo has less HP than the TLX per the numbers, but you wouldn't know it due to the TLX transmission.  The cabin controls are overly complicated.  Just because you can put everything on a touch screen, doesn't mean you should.  I shouldn't have to sit with the "IT specialist" to learn how to adjust the cabin temp.  The push button shifter was...odd.  I guess you get used to it, but it would take a while - and I shouldn't have to put up with that learning curve.  In summary:  the transmission ruins the car, but the button shifter, steering, and overly complicated cabin/nav/radio controls don't lend itself to liking the car either.  I rejected this car from my list.

 Just to give a little backround, my last two cars were a Lexus GS and an Acura RL.  I did not like my Lexus at all and got rid of it after less than two years.  I had that Lexus in the shop 7 times in those two years for various problems.  Up until then, I had pretty much owned only Toyota or Lexus.  In 2008, I decided to get the Acura RL to replace the Lexus GS.  The Acura RL treated me very well for 6 years until I gave it to my daughter.  When it was time to get a new car, I considered many different luxury brands but kept coming back to Acura.  So far, I have 24,000 miles on the car.  I can honestly say, this is the best car I have ever owned.  I look forward to driving it everyday.  There were a couple of recalls which were easily taken care of...I was not having problems before the recalls.  If I had to do it again, I would not hesitate to get the RLX.  I would love to have the hybrid version but it was not available when I bought my car.  I had a deposit for one with the dealer but after waiting a year, they finally told me they weren't sure when they would available.  I guess that would be my one complaint with Acura...they had a predicted release date for the hybrid and it kept getting delayed and there was no information available as to if and when they were going to come out with the car.

 I got this car back in April 2015. I have 9k miles on it now. Car drives without any issues whatsoever. When driving around 70 miles on the freeway car gets about 34mpg, even though by the book it is 31mpg. Mixed driving I get 26-27mpg, which is great considering how big car is. Car is definitely not the softest on the planet, since I saw few people complain about it, which is true I agree with that, however car is luxury/sport and some sport cars are not the most soft cars out-there. I really like a lot of standard options such as LED Headlights, P-AWS rear wheel steering technology 19" luxury wheels, acoustic windshield and front glass and etc., This car is definitely worth getting considering car cost a lot less than competition with similar options, less by about 15k. Also retail value always nice on Acuras and reliability is good if you think to keep car for longer than 5 years. In my opinion car looks much better than Lexus GS and boring looking Audi A6. Acura looks very beautiful, one of my favorite looking car in it's class.

 Purchased new RLX in 2014, what a mistake.  It has had three recalls and now an engine noise has developed which Acura mechanics can not figure out.  Audio tapes have been sent to Acura Engineering and they are stumped.  I intend to get rid of it as soon as it comes back from shop (two weeks)   Bad news trade in value is now $35,000 for a one year old car with 12,000 miles for which I paid $52,000.  Go with Lexus or Infinity and save yourself trouble

Interior design and comfort

Complete testing and engineering before you release a car.  Plain jane design has to go

 I have taken this car to the dealership three times and complained about the hard stopping. They said it was a software issue and they fixed it. It continues to do the same. Tired of the car.

 I drove both the 4 and 6 cylinder.  I bought a 2016 4 cylinder tech. The 8 speed dual clutch on the 4 cylinder is a great transmission. A little rough shifting when very cold, but once it warms up it is a dream.  Heard too many negative things about the 9 speed transmission on the V6 model. The 4 has plenty of pick up and go, but is no race car. It meets my needs. Very quiet cabin, smooth ride. Front tires do spin easily on wet roads, from a stop. I think better tires then the Goodyear standard equipment could help here.  Only issue I have is that I cannot click over to any call waiting calls while on bluetooth.  I have an I phone 6s. My telematics unit may be bad.  Or could be a widespread software issue. Awaiting a service visit to confirm.  Otherwise no issues. Love driving he car.

**Update on 2/10/16:  Seems the most recent Apple IOS update solved the call waiting issue.

 A long time Acura owner loved my TL.  Car was totaled and decided to buy a new car between TLX and mazda 6 GT.  I heard the 2015 transmission problem and was told by dealer the problem has fixed.  Searching online found no report on the 2016 model and people talking about the problem has been fixed by updating software (I was wondering if they are hired by acura!!).  I did tested the car I want to buy for 30 min  stop-go many times and noticed nothing (at 65F).  After 400 miles or so the car started to jerk at 0-30 mile/hr at all first 3 gears 80% to time (between 32F to 50F temperature).  Now at 700 miles the car started to jerk when slowing the car from 30 - 0 miles/hr.  What a nightmare to drive the car.  I hope Acura come out a real solution to the issue and fix the problem.

 I'm an Acura guy, owning for 12 years before this new '16 TLX I just bought.  I thought about changing - looked hard at BMW, Lexus, Infiniti, Jaguar - and I'm really happy I didn't.  Love the performance, ride and comfort, and I get all of the bells and whistles that the other guys have at a significantly lower cost.  Plus the car just looks great.

 This new TLX replaces my 2013 TSX SE. The TSX was a nice enough car with a great interior (tu-tone suede on the SE trim) and a very sporty demeanor. It's negatives outweighed is positives, though, in that it had too choppy of a ride and too much road noise to be truly enjoyable over the long haul. Those shortcomings have long been Acura and Honda traits, but no more! The TLX has a truly quiet and comfortable ride that is well controlled and never truly harsh in any way. The rear steering, or PAW-S, allows compensation for the softer ride in giving back a sharpness to the handling that is equally appreciated. The only weak link in the handling is the stock 17" touring tires that are stock on the 2.4L models. The V6 that I also drove handled slightly better with it's 18's without any appreciable difference in ride, so I'll likely swap up when the stock tires are worn.

Other than that and in spite of some weak areas in design, this car is proving to be everything that I could ever want in a sporty daily driver. The 2.4L has a nice snarl under hard acceleration, the 8 speed DCT is responsive and generally very smooth and decisive in its shifts. Again, the balance in ride and handling is superb and tech features like standard lane keep assist, blind spot monitoring and cross traffic alert is all above par and works quite well. The same can be said for the Tech package's ELS sound system that delivers crisp, clear sound. Lastly, the LED headlamps are truly impressive they are to headlights what Halogens were to sealed beams and Xenons were Halogens as they deliver brilliant light for good clarity and increased visibility.

The only glaring shortcomings come down to Honda's tech packaging. The dual screen setup doesn't bother me so much as the number of steps needed to complete even simple tasks. Case in point is the seat heaters. You touch the screen and then a second tab pops up to select the level heat that you want. It would be much simpler to touch the screen, default to highest setting and reduce levels and to off by repeating that touch. This repetitive nature is similar for just about everything that you'll do including audio, nav and bluetooth related functions. Lastly, I have noticed a pretty bad lag in responsiveness to inputs at times especially with bluetooth. Honda really needs to address this issue as having driven a number of cars before buying the TLX their system was truly the least user friendly that we encountered. Not a deal breaker, mind you, but still a glaring issue on an otherwise really nice car.

So, in closing, the TLX is a great sporty sedan for those that desire a middle of the road approach in a car that delivers equal parts of comfort and handling in a truly impressive package.

 The 3.5 V6 has awesome acceleration in Sport and Sport+ mode, 0-60 in 5.7 seconds. Not surprising given the 290 HP 3.5L V6, what is surprising is the 31MPG combined city/Hwy fuel economy that I am now getting even with car in Sport mode all the time. This car has an extremely quiet cabin and an awesome 10 speaker surround sound system that sounds like a concert hall in your car. I recommend anybody in the market for a midsize luxury sport sedan give this car a drive and compare to any in it's class. It is many thousands less for more and 5 star safety and the Honda/Acura reliability and resale value I can confirm thru years of resales and trade ins with Acura is among the best of any make. It simply cannot be beat for a luxury sport sedan of this caliber and all that you get especially with the Technology package.  Transmission issues reported on the 2015 are non existent on the 2016 and 2017 TLX, Acura upgraded the software and the issues from 2015 are gone, which is why I waited a model year before buying this new TLX vehicle.

 Overall, this is a very nice car.  I like it but don't quite love it, at least yet.  I cross shopped primarily the Mazda 6, Buick Regal turbo, and Honda Accord V6.  I got the TLX with the 2.4L 4-cylinder with 8 speed dual clutch and tech package.   It is a nice, quiet, comfortable, light on its feet 4 door sedan that has a hint of sport and a great audio system.  The TLX won my spreadsheet analysis comparison but hasn't won my heart yet.  I found the 6 and Regal to be sportier and more fun to drive, especially the Regal with the HiPer strut and AWD.  The Accord v6 was a hoot with that sweet v6.  The 6 lost due to aggressive head restraints, a bit more road noise, and it didn't have much top end power.  The Regal lost due to poorer visibility and lower quality interior and switches.  The Accord lost due to aggressive head restraints that gave my wife a headache and the audio system that wasn't up to my audio standards.  For the TLX, my biggest complaint is the transmission mapping.  By 25mph I’m in 5th gear.  Oh my!  I give the car a little gas and it doesn’t do anything.  To do anything it needs to downshift a gear or two.  I always feel like it’s in a gear too high.  Granted, I am coming from a 2007 TSX 6 speed manual that I had for almost 10 years and loved.  That was a nice driver’s car!  Mat Hargett and Bryan Hourt of Acura say this is a red carpet athlete and it’s also like a horse you know well that won’t tire you out.  Well, I do think they are right to a certain degree.  It CAN be sporty if you put it in sport plus and corner carve a bunch of empty curvy streets and keep the revs high and the transmission in a lower gear.  But I’m so far just commuting and I want it to feel more engaging.  If I just relax and drive in a more relaxed manner, it’s more satisfying.  The v6 and SH-AWD v6 version were faster but felt heavier and even less engaging.   My expectations are maybe not in line with today’s auto practices.  My old TSX is nearly 10 years old and things have changed a lot since then.  The move from hydraulic to electric steering, going from double wishbone to strut front suspension, and gas mileage maximizing transmission mapping all take their toll on driving fun and engagement.  In the end it was time for a new car and the TLX 4 cylinder was the overall best, I liked it, and it was in budget.  I was just hoping to love it.

 1) It's more comfort/quiet than sporty, more lexus ES then BMW 3 series. If you looking for a comfortable commuter car to make a few aggressive moves, this care will do the trick just fine. Plan for an extra lag time when you hit petal to the metal, unless you are in sport+ mode. Under all other modes pressing the petal will only accelerate the car slowly in the immediate second.

2) more car for the value. Car is almost the size of lexus ES (large midsize), not BMW 3 series (small midsize). 

It is quiet, It seems to be tune to weed out outside human voice and not so much traffic noise. traffic noise is hush to a very comfortable whisper. You can only hear the wind if you travel faster than 70mph. But not as quiet as top of the line BMW 7 or lexus LS. You hardly tell the difference between going 50mph vs 100mph unti you look at speeddometer. Technology package really adds a lot of value even though it may not seem like it on paper. Lots of standard features even in the base model (LED headlights, rear view camera, heated seats, side mirrors automatically tilt down when in reverse). One of the best audio systems.

2) Inexpensive, easy to own, premium fuel is recommended but not required. Buy pre-certified, and get benefits of cheaper price but has full new car warranty + 1 additional year. Maintenance is also cheap thus should buy rather than lease, compared to BMW or Mercedes which basically forces you to lease or sell the car once maintenance warranty runs out.

 I have owned the 6 cylinder FWD for 2 weeks. I am coming from a VW Passat TDI. The TLX is above the Passat in acceleration/ quality of materials. The TLX is below the Passat in interior room / MPG. The TLX does put a smile on my face when driving winding roads. It holds the road like no other car I have owned. I was between getting another Passat, Infiniti Q50, or this car. What won out was the interior quality and looks of the TLX. The Q50 trunk was way too small and interior very tight for my 6'2" frame. I would have got another VW , but thought I needed to look at something different. The things that I find frustrating on this car are the complicated radio, the Sirius only presets 12 channels, and you can't see what song is on Sirius until you turn the channel. Overall , the TLX provided a nice balance of quality materials, space, and amenities. Not perfect, but enjoyable car.

 I have had Acuras int the past..  The car is extremely comfortable and has a nice smooth ride..I enjoy the IDS system which allows you to drive in sport mode etc. No Back seat USBS which I found surprising and the Technology features offered were expensive additional packages where other 2017 car manufacturers included these in the price of their cars..I went with the 4 cylinder which has a lot of pep and I enjoy the stick shift for a sportier interior look over the 6 cylinder with the push buttons.  Overall I love the car , but they could have included more in the base model..

 This is my 6th Acura. 2017 TLX, 6 cylinder with Technology package. I turned in a 2013 TL, which I really liked but the lease had been extended three times. The 2013 was a superior automobile to the 2017. In more detail: The road handling is very good. The steering is precise and communicative. The road noise has been improved considerably. The stereo is the known ELS which is very good. The bad news: The technology is archaic, behind the times, totally disappointing, head scratching, how ACURA allows their automobiles to be designed and sold this way. The Honda Civic and the Hyundai Elantra (!!) are years ahead in terms of technology than the TLX. The menu selections are awful, a lot of duplication. The response time is amazingly slow, to the point that one does not know whether it works. The software did get "hung up" once, during the first week but it recovered. If technology is not important, it is a very solid car and fun to drive. But since technology is an integral part of the driving experience, it is a rather disappointing car.

 I am the owner of a 2006 Acura TL, and I must say that it is the best car I have ever owner for $27k, but it is getting old.  So I went to Acura to look at the new 2017 TLX, which is the TL replacement.  What an embarrassment to quality for a $40k car.  Interior is cheap plastic instead the softer leather/vinyl found in my TL.  Headroom in the back seat will only accommodate a person 5'8" tall or shorter.  I am 6' tall and I had to tilt my head and sink down in the seat to fit.  Seats are leather trim instead of all leather which usually means that 80% of the seat is vinyl with a little bit of leather to fool people.  Front dash with speedometer and odometer looks very cheap.  Bottom line, this car looks comparable to a Honda Civic, which is what the ILX is suppose to do.  Now for the safety part.  THIS CAR DOESN'T COME STANDARD WITH A SPARE TIRE IN THE TRUNK.  Acura gives you a can of sealant  which more than likely WILL NOT fix your flat tire so that you can get off the highway and drive to a safe area.  So get AAA.  But what the sealant will do is wreck your TPMS sensor inside the tire which will cost a couple hundred dollars to replace.  Electronic assisted steering means that at any time you are driving your car, the steering will fail and take you into the woods or down an embankment.  Scary, isn't it.  If you are driving down the highway and you are in danger of hitting a car or deer that is in front of you, your natural instinct is to brake and veer onto the shoulder of the road to avoid a collision.  Acura's new Lane Keeping Assist system will sense that you are going off the paved road and pull you back onto the highway so that you smash into whatever you were trying to avoid.  The bottom line is that Acura has no replacement for the TL.  Now I know what you are going to say, "What about the RLX?"  Well, the RLX is an old person sedan that my dad would drive and costs twice the amount that I paid for my TL for roughly the same quality of car.  Personally I think that Acura needs a new CEO who can bring back luxury and quality to the low-end Acura line without costing the consumer over $60k.

 Incredible value , performance and luxury for the price.. nothing beats it ... Just drive the adv 3.5 sh-awd and you will see...superb comfort and quite interior..

 Great car for price paid. Huge discount!

 An ex-girlfriend has this car.  I drove it for several weeks including an out of town trip/vacation.  When she told me how much she paid for it, I thought she was confused and made her show me the purchase contract.  She paid a little over 30 for the base model.  You cannot get a car like this for the money.  People that complain about the acceleration need to learn how to drive.  The 4 cylinder has more horse power than a Toyota Camry.  When you are passing or merging you floor it to make it down shift to use all 204hp.  My normal car is an infiniti G37 (330hp).  I floor the infiniti about once a week and floored the acura two or three times a day.  I paid about 45 for my infiniti with all the bells and whistles.  My car has some features that the acura doesn't have but it has some that mine doesn't.  The acura has no gas cap and shows the tire pressure for each individual tire just to name a few.  You can find better cars than the tlx and cheaper cars than the tlx but you can't find one that's better and cheaper.

 I don't understand why edmunds isn't giving the TLX more love, guess they are too caught up in the Audi BMW and Benz bandwagon and turbo craze. I have a 2013 Honda CR-V and love Hondas and decided it was time to upgrade the wife's car from a Mustang to this. Great decision the 4 cylinder has tremendous power even though I thought long and hard about going w the 6, the technology package is definitely worth the extra bucks for all the safety features and technology that comes w it. Absolutely love this car all the way around

 Having had several Honda's , I wanted to try a luxury vehicle and chose the Acura TLX. I find this vehicle to be quiet, solid and sporty to drive. If you want ostrich covered upholstery and a vehicle that drives itself, this probably is not for you. But if you want a car that has all the necessary luxury items and is fun to drive, try the TLX. I also like the fact that, unlike my Honda, I don't see this vehicle every time I turn around.

 I own a 2010 Acura TL and it was time for an upgrade and I chose a 2017 Acura TLX.  I can't tell you how disappointed I am in this car and the regret I feel for spending this much money on a car with so many flaws I can't begin to explain them all.  The dashboard technology is so ridiculously behind and out of sync with other brands but of course I didn't realize how bad until after I owned the car and had a chance to deal with it on a daily basis.  Just an example is turning on heated seats requires pressing a button on the touch screen then selecting again a level of choice.  If you want to change it again that same two steps is required each and every time. I get so frustrated with how ridiculous this is when you think about safety and distracted driving.  If you use voice control it's the same two step process if it recognizes what you are saying.  The car is completely gutless and unresponsive and I don't drive it the same as my 2010 TL because I can't.  I'm discouraged I spent so much money on this car when the manufacturer hasn't corrected the past problems with their brand and went cheap by not updating and keeping current with technology offered by other auto makers in the same class.  Some things in this car just don't make sense and you won't know it until you drive it for awhile.

 We bought a TLX AWD V6 with tech package at  end of August, 2016, the car vibrates around 75 MPH from day one.  We sent it back to dealer 4 times, they did balance, changed four tires. Yesterday, they changed many parts according to the instruction from Acura.  The car still vibrates around 75 MPH, but less intensively.  Just  improve a little bit. I have driven four TLX V6 AWD from dealer, every of them vibrates.  My neighbor has a  TLX AWD V6 with tech package too, his car vibrates around 75 MPH too.  This time Acura made very bad car.   Acura client relation is terrible.  They don't care about this issue at all.  We made phone, they told me they would call me back but they never called me.

 I've owned the TLX technology,  the navigation is not the greatest it had me turned around a few times , every once in awhile the volume on the stereo would automatically get louder to its highest level and vibrant the car I would take the car in to Acura to find out the problem , only to find out we can't find out the problem,  but I was told the next time it happens bring it back in.  This was the 2nd time it happened and the 2nd time I brought it in . The paint does not do well on the road with other cars .

 This is my 3rd Acura - had 2008 MDX and 2011 TSX wagon - wagon was discontinued - switched to BWW 3 wagon xDrive - what a piece of junk - never again!!!

 I thought Acura was a good brand.  Made a bold and regrettable decision in buying this car.  I feel Acura is going to just push these horriblr cars out and hope for no traguc results.  I am terrified to take this car on the highway.  It does not move.  Expensive regret.  Purchased.  Counting days to unload.

 Can't believe how fast and how fast they kept improving

 THe 2017 TLX V6 is definitely a great car. Driven other cars in the same class and no other car comes close to the performance. Out performs the 3 series and C300. Drives smooth on the fwy, anyone from South California that has driven on the 710 knows how bumpy the drive can be but TLX handles the fwy with no problem. I got the TLX V6 with the Tech package. If you're  looking for a great deal and near West Covina go see Jessica Rosas at Thomas Acura

 I love this car. It has the space and height of an SUV, but drives like a car. The standard features are better than all of the competitors. Acura service is also top notch. They go out of their way to help and accommodate you when you bring the car in for maintenence.

 I owned a Lexus NXt200 for the last two years and have been a Lexus guy for 20 years. Still love their cars. However, I have been driving the  the RDX for the last two months and can definitively say it is far and away a better car than the NXt for my money. In short: the RDX interior feels more luxurious; acceleration is much smoother; car is quieter; and the technology such as adaptive cruise control, lane departure and blind spot monitoring make long trips much less stressful. You almost feel like you are a pilot monitoring a plane on auto pilot versus constantly turning cruise control on and off and fighting your way through traffic. It's more like you glide your way through traffic on the interstate. Of course, no car is perfect and there is still room for tweaks and improvements. For example, if you are on the interstate in the left lane and going around a long curve the car senses the the car ahead of you in the right lane is actually in front of you and slows down unnecessarily. But this is a rare and minor annoyance, especially compared the the raft of positive attributes this car possesses. I highly recommend you check it out during your due diligence period when shopping for a mid-size SUV. I am extremely happy I did.

 My wife wanted a small, luxury SUV and we settled on a 2017 Acura RDX AWD base model.  It is a solid SUV with nice features for a base model.  No squeaks or rattles.  Initial gas mileage was 25 mpg before the cold weather settled in, dropping it to a still respectable 23 mpg.  I like the variable cylinder management that shuts off 3 cylinders during low output conditions.  It is such a smooth process you don't know when it is happening.  The technology interfaces are kind of old fashioned for an upper end vehicle.  No touch screens or fancy graphics.  Buttons and knobs are nicely laid out, but I wish fan speed was controlled by a knob instead of buttons.  Radio does not stay on after car shuts off.  Seats are comfy, but leatherette surfaces are more like plastic than leather.  Heated seats warm up fast, but I miss a heated steering wheel.  Elevated rear seats are nice with plenty of legroom.  Great visibility out rear and side windows.  The 19.5 gallon gas tank could be larger.   The AWD version comes with a spare tire instead of a tire repair kit.  Headlights look and function great.   Overall, happy with the vehicle.  It doesn't necessarily have the feel of a luxury vehicle, but we don't feel we paid a luxury price for it either.

 Lots of space in the back seat.  Wish it would have real leather seats!!!  Looks like leather but they are not real leather seats.

 Excellent handling, powerful acceleration, Space, Speed!!!

 Love my 2017 RDX , only has 1,200 miles, but I've had to bring it in to dealership for repairs already!   First incident:   Navigation screen kept freezing up and or did not work properly.  At one point, I was in Drive but the screen showed the rear view camera on.  Very unnerving!  I had to pull off the road on several occasions, turn off engine and then restart the car.   When I brought car to dealer, they claimed that they did not see the problem.  However, after I picked up the car, the problem seems to have disappeared.   Hmmm.....                                          Second  incident:   The brakes started squeaking.   Thought it would go away but, no.   Brought it back in and was told that something was defective in the installation.  They had to put in brand new brake pads.   Really???    A brand new car????    So, I'm keeping my fingers crossed that nothing else will go wrong.   Love the comfort and safety of the car.   Fun driving!

 Really enjoy the RDX and compared to my brothers Lexus, it blows it out of the water.  Instrumentation is the only negative as it is very confusing and not easy to intuitively understand the functions.  The split screens are also confusing and should be combined into one screen and not the dual screen method as of now.  Ride, handling, safefy features such as lane departure and lane departure assist are outstanding!  So glad I decided on the RDX.

 I owned a 2009 RDX with technology package and thought it was great. This one is even better. We had a 2012 BMW X3 for a short time but missed features of the RDX. We love our new RDX and because of the safety features the insurance is even cheaper than it was for the 2012 BMW.

 Overall, I really enjoy this vehicle. I chose the base AWD because I did not like the stereo and navigation interface on the technology package and above. I also did not get Acura watch package because it's not perfected.  The only options I wish I had are blind spot monitor and rear cross traffic.  Get about 21 mpg overall so far and it is winter.  The past 3 days has been 32-40 degrees and I've been getting about 24 in mixed driving on regular.  Overall, the RDX has great acceleration and great value vs its main competitors.  Nothing else comparable with a luxury nameplate comes close. I only have 3 minor complaints. 1) use of cargo space could be better. My wife has a Mazda CX5 and her car holds way more and has nice little cubbies the RDX lacks. 2) handling. Again, comparing to the CX5 steering is vague and lacks feedback. 3) When using the Bluetooth it's really hard to hear. Voices very tinny and have to have volume on very high to hear the other line. It's a little odd because the stereo and speakers are otherwise fine. Overall, I definitely recommend. Bulletproof engine and transmission and again, it's hard to match at its price point.

 We looked at other suv's, found that the Acura had a better price with more opptions. The V6 engine has plenty of power & the transmission works great. We took a long road trip through Montana, Wyoming, South Dakota, Colorado, Utah & Nevada back to Cal. The car ran great with no problems going over all the mountains. I would recommend an Acura to anyone wanting a mid sized suv

 We bought this car about a month ago and it was certainly the most expensive car we've ever purchased.  We did wind up test driving basically every car at the Acura dealership as well as checked out comprable Lexus sedans as well as the Accord (our historical default choice).  Now that we've driven the car for about 5 weeks, our intial impression: its fantastic!  I deliberately left the "value" category blank as its certainly in a very different class than other cars we've purchased in the past. (Frankly we'd consider that the Accord is a great "value".)   Thus far, we've been thrilled with the RLX Hybrid.  Its comfortable for long and short rides, quite sporty and, when driven a bit aggressively/sport mode, will certainly demand the driver's attention to keep the shiny side up.  The safety features are amazing (CMBS,LKAS, etc).  The safety features as well as the tech features did require some a bit of study, but now I find it very intuitive.  Overall an outstanig car!

 First, any "Expert" that is paid to write an article about a car should have to drive one of the cars for a month, then write their opinion. This clown who was an independent writer for Forbes, says the 2016 Acura RLX is one of the worst 10 cars to buy. Seriously? A 5 Star safety rating in every category, phenomenal company (Acura makes a lemon?) incredibly smooth, quiet, has great acceleration, is sexy, sleek, but doesn't have the perception as a racecar like a BMW ( had one, and it sucked, unless you LIKE being in the repair shop all the time), so it gets hammered before it is even proven?  This Acura RLX is  so fun to drive, whether a short jaunt or a multiple hour trip, it is outstanding in spite of what a non-owner tries to tell you. Expect to but it $10K under MSRP. The technology package is nice, the visibility is great, and I'd rather have a DEPENDABLE, SAFE car like this than a slightly faster BMW that will break down, or Mercedes (Turbo charged 4 cylinders are stupid if you want a car long-term) sedan unless you buy 500. Acura has a reputation as dependable and reliable, and this is still true.

 Overall very satisfied with this purchase.  Currently at 14k miles.  No major glitches.  Controls are intuitive and easy to master.   However, Playing XM stations are glitchy and very slow to load, for scrolling;  as are obtaining music from your USB FlashDrive.  Push Button shifting, especially reverse, is slow to engage (1 sec) on press of accelerator.  Hybrid system is absolutely awesome, but comes with sacrifice of trunk space.  Engine is very quiet when switching between electric motors and engine running; transfers between each completely unnoticed except for the RPM needle moving, ......this hybrid is much different than those gas saving German models which "die" at a stop sign, then restart.  Very comfortable and rides well.  Power distribution lives up to the "rides on rails"  marketing motto.  Would definitely buy again, and recommend.

 This is a very underrated car. I just ordered my second RLX after finishing a three-year lease. Initially, I was quite surprised at how much I liked this car.   It has comfort, value, a killer stereo, reliability, and quality materials throughout.  Unfortunately, Acura has chosen not to aggressively market this model. That's too bad, because it's a real jewel!

 This is a vehicle that compares to competing brands that are much more expensive. I bought this RDX while trading in my larger MDX. The biggest difference is this is the little brother to the MDX and does not have the 3rd row of seats and thus less cargo space as well. I didn't need the space and welcomed the smaller SUV with better gas mileage! If I have any complaint at all it is that the front driver seats appears to be much smaller than the one that was in my 2012 MDX. It has been taking me awhile to get used to it. The bigger MDX seemed to have more support particularly with a bigger seat body that went up to the back of my knees. Other than that the car is fantastic. First time having cooling ventilating front seats which is a joy during the hot days. Definitely go with the Advance Package. All the goodies that go with it are worth the price!

 I have been researching and shopping for a new vehicle for several months.  I had narrowed it down to the Acura RDX awd and Lexus NX and briefly thought about waiting until the new Honda CRV makes it's debut next month. Well, I just pulled the trigger on the RDX with all the bells and whistles, and I couldn't be happier.  It drives beautifully. It is quiet, responsive, and displays impressive handling.  Although the tech is probably of 2015 vintage (no apple car play or android auto), with ACC, LKAS, blind spot monitoring, collision mitigation, rear cross traffic alert, lane departure warning, and stability control, I reallyb don't feel that I am sacrificing anything. I have no problem with the double screen setup, and although there is a bit of a learning curve, I enjoy having the big map always being displayed on the upper screen.  The "cherry" on top was a killer deal I secured after visiting/communicating with multiple Acura dealers in the NY area. I strongly suggest that you do your due diligence.

 As the owner of a 2016 Acura MDX, my wife loved driving it but wanted something a little smaller. She drove a number of vehicles and came back to the Acura RDX. It was the best mix of comfort, luxury, sportiness, and safety of any vehicle she test drove. She is currently 3 weeks in to ownership and completely loves it. She was coming from an Infiniti G37, so was used to great acceleration. The RDX doesn't disappoint as it's one of the quickest vehicles in it's class. The only complaints would be average to below average navigation system and lack of power folding mirrors, panoramic sunroof, heated steering wheel, backseat climate controls, and Android Auto / Apple Car Play. The car excels in just about every other area. The Modern Steel Metallic with Graystone interior is gorgeous. Averaging 23 mpg around town.

 First Acura.  We (truthfully my wife) were looking for a medium size SUV to replace our 2001 Honda Odyssey.  We test drove the RDX, Lexus RX 350, Nissan Murano, and a loaded out Honda CRV.  RDX was our first choice by a mile.  Super smooth power train and very quiet/smooth ride.  Easily best value in its class.  Back seat room is exceptional for two adults but three would definitely be a crowd.  Only downsides include cludgy technology/interfaces, smallish gas tank, and somewhat narrow driver and front passenger seating.

 Just bought my Fully loaded RDX and it's amazing!   Beautiful inside and out.  The tech is awesome and it practically drives itself.   Love the way it handles - very easy to drive - no blind spots thanks to the warnings and collision prevention and it's so easy to drive it almost handles more like a car than an SUV.   Highly recommend!  Love mine.

 I was looking for a vehicle to replace my 2011 Lexus that had high mileage, and wanted a change.  The new Lexus is bigger than my previous Lexus and I did not want that large a vehicle.  I had test driven an Acura previously and went to the Acura dealer to check them out.  I love the design, I bought the RDX Advance, it is larger than the Acura I test drove 5 years ago, it is a great size for me.  It has a lot of bells and whistles' that is, technology features.  It is taking me a while to master them. But, I love the lane assist and blind spot warning, which takes no tech knowledge to operate.  I have only had the car 3 weeks, but so far, love it.  It drives so smoothly, with no noise.  The seats are very comfortable, great lumbar support.  I look forward to several years of great driving with this Acura RDX.

 Love the fit and finish throughout the exterior and interior of the RDX.    I like that I can plug in my iPod and control it completely from the audio interface.  The interface, however, is far from intuitive and I've often had to pull over in order to work through several attempts to complete an action (One example: search for and play a single song then revert back to shuffle and play the entire collection).  The front doors close with a nice solid "thunk".  The rear doors seem very light and uninsulated.   The gas tank could be larger -- it's 16 gallons which, with an average 23 mpg around town, gets me through about 380-400 miles before needing a refill.  Seems to come up way more quickly than my former car (a Buick Lacrosse that had a much larger tank and got slightly fewer mpg's).  I appreciate the ease of entry, the controls and comfort of the driver's seat, and the get-up-and-go when you hit the gas.  Love the car!

 I've had my RDX for a month and already have 2000 miles on it.  Overall, I love the car.  Very comfortable seats and ride, however, I've had a little difficulty finding and ideal driving position.  I am very tall and with the seat all the way back to accommodate my legs, the steering wheel does not telescope quite far enough to be completely comfortable.  Many complain about the two screen technology but I like it very much.  I also own a Corvette so I like to go fast, and as a result I'm only averaging about 21 mpg around town, but that's fine with me since I had a Ford Explorer Sport before this and only got 17 mpg with that.  Overall, I am very satisfied and would highly recommend this vehicle.  I really like the styling, with the door handles contoured to the belt line and the LED headlights.   I also like the clean back end with no bumper sticking out below the hatch and not visible exhaust tips (and yes I do like the four exhaust trumpets on my Vette).

 I went from a 2013 CRV and I love the 2017 RDX.  It has a nice quiet comfortable ride with plenty of leg room in front and back.  The V6 is very smooth and has some get up and go.  I love all the safety features in the advanced package.  I really like the navigation and being able to send destinations from your phone to your car navigation and calling Acura link to find a destination while driving.  The only thing lacking is there is no remote start option on the app.

 I have a 2017 Acura RDX and ever since 500-800 miles alignment issues, dash board noise , steering wheel noise , front brakes make noise. This is leased car and I don't have confidence that this is a great car with ongoing issues that dealer can't fix. Disappointed

 Had this car for 5 months now and can't wait to drive it each day. We live in the Rockies and travel to Salt Lake Utah valley often. Love the ride up and down the mountains. No lost of power coming up. Fuel average is 40 mpg. Sport car all the way!

 I saw a couple of these running around town, but never really stopped to look. I began calculating gas costs of my 1997 gas eater and decided it was time to look around. I looked at all kinds of different models, hybrids, new, used, etc. I finally settled on the CR-Z as my first choice for test drive and once I drove it, that was it. If I wasn't convinced before I was then. Sleek, sharp, and comfortable all around would be the best way to describe. I completely agree with the other reviewers as well. 

I must start out by commenting on the speed and power of this car. I definitely feel the "pro" reviewers are overly critical of this point. I've driven faster cars and while this isn't going to win many races, it has more than ample power and torque to make it quick and nimble, and very enjoyable to drive. So far on my commute around Seattle which includes heavy traffic and some fairly open highways I get roughly 43 mpg using econ mode. I haven't tested with normal or sport. Overall I love my car, it's a joy to look at and drive and it sure feels good to help the earth, save money, and not having to fill up every few days.

Not much other than bells and whistles. Would have loved a sunroof option.

 I love this car! I bought it because I wanted a fuel efficient car that was also fun to drive. This car is definitely fun to drive and I love getting into it each morning. 

I've owned my CR-z for about 6 months now. This car is really comfortable-- I love that the seats hug you. I also like all the bells and whistles like blue tooth phone connection, radio adjustment from the steering wheel, and a USB port to hook up my ipod. 

 I'm 56 years young and just turned in my leased 550SL. I decided to look for a sporty hybrid that would hold golf clubs, plants trays, blue tooth, and groceries. My rule is only buy groceries that will fit into my car.  It seats felt identical to the 550SL (without the leather and heated seats). It was easy to drive and fuel efficient. IPOD connection as well as lap top. Has everything I need and fuel efficient. I just returned from Denmark and realized that Americans have it backwards and this is my step to help the economy as well as my pocket book. I recommend you take for a test yourselves.

 First off, I love my CRZ. We were on a waiting list to get one when they first came out. Test drove it, and it was instant love. Having had the car for about two years now, we still love it. Part of me wishes they would come out with a 4 seater version, but then I guess it would loose some of its appeal? There is a WHOLE lot of room in this tiny car. I kid you not, we bought a queen sized bed frame, mattress, etc (From Ikea of course -.-) and we fit it in the car?! Amazing. It also fits multiple full sized bikes, without taking off the wheels. I don't recommend it.. you might mark your interior plastics.. 

It's really fun to drive and great on gas. We easily average about 40mpg

By far, the room. Fun to Drive. Easy on the eyes compared to most hybrids... it's got that sporty look. Interior design is spent only on the front seats. Well, there are only two seats of course, but it's nice to have a car that's made for the driver (and a friend).

Ok. Onto the bad. I have two minor complaints about the car. 1) I agree about the headlights. They're not AS BAD as one reviewer makes them sound but they are sub-par. I can CLEARLY see where I am going, but sometimes we wonder if our headlights are on. That's not ok. But, I am just going to switch them out eventually. Easy fix. 2) My biggest gripe about this car. ITS SO LOW! I love low cars. I have a classic Camaro that sits just about as low as any other car. But it's the nose that's the problem here. I can't even park my car in the garage or drive way because it scrapes so bad. It scrapes going out of parking garages, parking lots, etc.  Even with those issues, still love the car.

 I am the second owner of this car and love the style, ride, handling and acceleration of the car.  Purchased as a CPO.   Without  the warranty this car would cost a fortune to own.  The car is 5 years old and has 83000 miles.  It has required an engine overhaul, transmission work and 4 recalls with a fuel pump recall coming once the parts are available.  For the last 10,000 miles the car has needed a quart of oil every 1000 miles, BMW told me  this was normal.  Recently, I needed to add coolant. Brought the car in to address the problem and was told after having the car for 2 weeks, it would need valve seals, engine gaskets and new turbo coolant lies, along with hoses.  Total cost with the warranty 3500.00!!    Service manager told me this is an engine on par with exotics and repairs like this should be expected.  Wish I would have known!!  Will stay away from BMW high end engines in the future, unless I make a killing in the stock market.

 I have my CRZ about 3 months now and LOVE IT!! I saw one on the road and followed it to find out what it was, and that is was a hybrid sold me on it!

I have had people stop and ask "what is that?" and have seen people checking it out in parking lots. Getting mileage over 41 mpg.

And I look good in it!

Hybrid, of course. The little fin antennae on top.Lots of nooks and crannies to store things in. USB for the stereo.

 I traded in my 2007 Ford edge for the 2011 cr-z ex CVT. At first I had to get used to much less room and lower visibility but fun driving and spending 50% less gas money is great and helps to comfort me in other ways. 

 when you look at the stats and specs

that this car is givin its misleading. saying its not fast enuf or the gasmilage isnt what its supost to be, i must disagree i got the 6mt and was told 31-38 thats not what im getting im up to 43 avg. and the 0-60 they claim im blowing it away and i havent even givin it all its got its about 6 sec witch is faster then any car in its price range the sport and eco buttons make a huge diffrence and the s+ gives you something extra too. i think if honda and other companies would have tested it properly they would have sold more. i wasnt going to buy it after looking up online reviews but after testing it i couldnt refuse its far more then they give it credit

its by far the best looking car made in a long time not counting high priced cars that nobody can afford. the manual transmission the only proper way to drive a car. that cvt and flappy paddles are a joke on all cars. all hail the stick!

 My son needed a new car.

After test driving the Ford Fiesta and checking out the Veloster and Civic SI, he decided on a cr-z and we are happy he did.

The car gets very good gas mileage for around town (average 34.1 with a/c running most of the time and usually in normal mode).

You can't go by the EPA mileage rates because that doesn't take into consideration the option to drive in Econ mode to increase fuel efficiency.

Look up what actual drivers are posting for what they are getting and you will be surprised.

 I bought this car for commuting to work.  Now my wife wants to take it as much or more than I do.  Sporty look.  Enough cargo for both of us to get away for a few days.  Gas mileage is better than advertised, especially in ECON mode.  The only issues I have are legroom is a bit tight for me (I am 6'3") and the radio does not pair without a cable.  Otherwise the car is absolutely great!  I see a lot of Prius on the road, but would buy 10 CRZ's before I'd buy one of those.

A few months have passed since the original post.  Still enjoying the CRZ; it has exceeded my expectations.  The only issue I have had is connecting my iPhone to play music.  Worked for a while, but now I am unable to get a connection.  Wireless would have been a better alternative.  Otherwise, very pleased overall.

 I fell in love with the CR-Z the moment I laid eyes on it. I loved the 80's sports car look (which is based on the old CR-X) and the very modern interior design. Better yet, the car is economical with crazy good gas mileage. 



The reviews of this car don't do it justice- this car is not intended to be a sports car. It's meant to be a hybrid that's fun to drive and performs like a sports car, and on that count it passes with flying colors. One complaint I frequently saw is about rear and side visibility. I've had no problems once I got used to the car.

 My husband was dying to get back to a stick shift. I refuse to buy anything with less than 35 MPGs avg. We both wanted fun, comfort, and style. Answer: the CR-Z. It took us two years to be able to buy one since we do need one car with more space, but as a second vehicle for commuting and weekend errands, it's perfect. We had to work out a weekly trade-off to avoid fighting over who got to drive it. It took a little getting used to because it is small but it hugs the road beautifully. The side mirrors are built smart for better visibility and even the base model includes a Google Glass back-up camera (I miss it when driving our other car!). Bottom line: we LOVE it!

manual transmission in an affordable hybrid (also comes in automatic for those who prefer it), excellent gas mileage, Sport+ button for some extra juice, anti-rollback feature, very modern styling, convenient hatchback plus storage behind passenger seats, Google Glass back-up camera

 As a previous owner of a CRX-DX (7-years) this CRZ is a welcome pleasure. I traded in my 2001 A4 1.8TQ for this little piece of heaven. It is nice getting back to a smooth clutch. The Audi was a little long on both travel and throw. The exterior styling is a mix of Porsche 928 rear end & heavily modified S2000 front. The interior high end with soft touch controls like the Audi. The well placed control close to the driver. The 6 weeks has been unbelievable in the gas mileage. I am just about to fill up for the third time with: 41.7, 43.5 and 43.4 for miles/gal. avg. Not bad for a 80 City / 20 Highway driving. There seems to be no difference in Normal / Econ mode on mileage, just on stop idle.

The stop/idle function great coasting to a light under 19 mph with the engine off. No problems with blind stops, you need to set the outside mirror correctly. Smooth 6-sp. manual, interior design & layout. The battery boost is quick to the call when needed. The sport mode is nice on the on ramps. 

Heated seats would be nice - std. or option. Auto dimming of both inside & outside would help. 

 I love this car!

I've had it a week and have averaged 45mpg just jetting around. I love that it's a hybrid but not boring. We are empty nesters so the 2 seater is great for us. The hatch area comfortably fits our 35 lb dog. We are tall but fit very comfortably with plenty of leg and headroom. Great stereo even in the base model, and the silver mesh seats are really nice. 

 My wife & I wanted a two-seater with some cargo space that's fun to drive and doesn't cost too much. This Honda CRZ hybrid is exactly what we were looking for. We test drove several roadsters and none came close in terms of purchase price and fuel economy. With its 3 driving modes, we have it all from 36 mpg average (1/3 city & 2/3 hwy) to thrilling performance. In the sport mode, this is a little rocket ship and handles as well as other roadsters we tested. For around $21,000 (new), it's a great value--nice & comfortable interior, attractive gauges and decor, good entertainment system w/ bluetooth, plenty of cargo room, great handling. Road and engine noise are a bit loud, but that's a part of being a roadster. Other cars we own are Ford Explorer, Mercedes R350 & a Prius, so this fits in very nicely with our collection. We would have liked this to be a convertible. But, all things considered, that's a small sacrifice. This rocket ship is just plain fun to drive, without bleeding my pocket book. MPG would be better if we drove more in ECO mode, but that defeats the point of having a roadster!

It is now Feb 2017 and after 6 months, I still feel the same way about what my original review in July 2016.

 The CRZ is the only hybrid that comes with a manual 6-speed transmission. It has gears!!! Compared to other hybrids that have CVTs that kill hp, torque and driving fun.

 Downsized from a Buick Enclave and was worried about losing the comfort of a bigger SUV. Worries were not warranted. I love the RDX !!!!

 Owned the 2016 RDX for 2 months.  Bought the FWD with technology package.  The RDX has the best overall engine for small SUV.  Same engine as the MDX, but much smaller car means better performance.  Great HP for its class.  Very good gas fuel economy and uses regular unleaded gas.  Other SUV's that had similar HP were turbo charged engines that required premium gas (i.e. more expensive to operate).  Transmission is 6 speed automatic that is very smooth and shift points are perfect.  Ride quality is a little stiff, but that helps with handling.  The car is very quite when windows are rolled up.  Seats are very comfortable.  Very nice dual displays (one of which is touch screen).  Premium stereo with XM and HD FM.  I like the HD FM sound quality.  It has a 15GB hard disc so you can save CD's or transfer songs from USB stick.  There are 2 key fobs that you can customize most of the car features for each.  Seating position, radio settings, navigation settings, are just a few of the items.  Car recognize which key is closer and those settings are active for that driver.  Very nice.  Only a few negatives:  Lots of wind noise when back windows are down more than about 1 inch.  The electronics take about 1 minute to boot up when you start the car.  Does not sound like much, but much slower than my Lexus that is 8 years older.  Navigation system works good, but a little funky to set.  Sound quality is good compared to standard quality systems, but less than other premium systems.

 This is my 2nd RDX. The first was approaching 10 years old original owner no problems aside from normal maintenance items. The 2016 RDX has come a long way -  is extremely comfortable fun to drive and loaded with Technology and safety features. The adaptive cruise and lane keeping assist work very well. If you're in the market for a reliable new car with state of the art technology this is one you should take a good look at. While i'm not big on extended warranties, especially not having any issues with my first RDX, they did sell me on a transferable 4 year extended "bumper-to-bumper" warranty (9 years total). If nothing else it adds re-sell value. My only con is interior/exterior color selection. You're pretty much stuck with what they offer but not a deal breaker. Overall very happy.

 RDX 2016 Fantastic....New technology features work great....Long time coming but worth the wait....was deciding between Q5...Murano....Sante Fe....Lexus ....The overall cost in comparison to what you get is what convinced me....Although Sante Fe was close....Honda Quality and my Personal History with Honda cars sold me in the end.....Purchased the RDX 2016 with the intent to Drive Cross Country from California to east coast and back.....and wanted and needed the additional technology features ( Acura Watch Plus ) to assist and make my trip comfortable and Safe....I was not disappointed...My only regret is that I should have bought the Advance Package ....oh and it needs more USB Ports especially in the rear Seating areas.

 While there were some high points with my 2016 RDX, all in all, it was the worst $30K+ vehicle I've ever owned.  First and foremost, the electronics in my vehicle were so buggy and unreliable, it became positively maddening.  About 1/3 of the time, my hands-free calls would fail to connect and leave the phone in "private mode" and utterly useless for 2-3 minutes.  Worse yet, the voice recognition was horrific.  The car dialed 9-1-1 three different times when I asked it to "call Taco Deli."  For all intents and purposes, the bluetooth phone operation was worthless.

The entertainment system worked okay, however, the preset labels rarely displayed the ACTUAL saved station.  When I pushed preset 1, the tuner would tune to 94.7, exactly as expected, but the label on the display was sometimes 138.9, sometimes all Cyrillic characters, sometimes all 1's and many other random values.  As long as I remembered what preset went with which stations, I was good to go.

 I bought this car because the ride is quiet, the acceleration is excellent, the ride is comfortable, it has a very good safety rating and safety technology is state of the art. I also liked the Acura's reputation for reliability. I enjoy a good sound system and the RDX with the Advance package is among the best I have heard in a car. 

We drive a lot of miles each year on long vacation driving trips. Since the car is also used around town, the smaller size of this SUV is convenient as it rides well on a trip but also easy to park in a city.  

There have been a couple of surprises. While I knew the car had great safety features, I had not really experienced the changes introduced to my life by this car until taking it on a trip shortly after buying the car. The surprise is that it requires changing how to drive in many respects and requires a new driver for this car to adjust to the technology.

Specifically, the ability of the car to adjust its speed with the traffic. Don't misinterpret: I like the changes but on a busy interstate, one needs to pay attention to adjust to the changes. Cars and trucks pull in front of a car unexpectedly. The first time this happened, the Acura RDX slowed dramatically and automatically. I did not have to apply the brakes. Several days into this driving trip, I had adjusted and found myself becoming almost lackadaisical about this feature as the car almost adjusts itself. Driving is more relaxing. On a busy highway, I disabled the system though as the distance between my car and the next vehicle was long, even with the lowest setting, and occasionally a large number of cars would continually pull in front and constantly slow down our pace of driving.

I did not like the feature of adjusting the steering  when changing lanes or moving in traffic. I turned this feature off quickly. No doubt, I will try it again but doubt it will be useful or one that I will use with any regularity. I prefer to drive the car and change lanes as necessary without objection from the computer in the car.

 I paid $800 for the car. It has turned 

out to be the very best used car i have 

ever owned. i replaced the front 

bearings when i bought the car. i 

havent had a single problem with the 

 This car is powerful.  Although it is 

powerful it gets very good gas 

mileage.  It has speed!  6 speed!

It has speed!It has speed!It has speed! It has speed!It has speed!It has speed!

 I had gotten this car a little more then a year ago. This is my second car that i have owned. The first car that i owned does not even compare to the Mustang. The Mustang has twice the power and handling that my other car did. I fell in love with this car. The unique outside looks are amazing and all of the other features make it just an unbelieveable car!

Improve horsepower and the take off. As well as a cold air intake.

 Fell in love in with my best friend's Mustang GT in 1989 and told myself I would get a "fox" at some point in my life.  Bought my '93 GT last year with 125k miles on it and couldn't be happier.  Engine still pulls strong and interior is in great shape (surprising for a Ford).  Car sounds and looks great and still attracts attention from people driving cars worth 10 times as much.  Constantly getting offers to sell but this GT will be in my garage as long as I can drive.

Love the unmistakable styling and the sound of the exhaust. Car runs great, looks and sounds nice and is one of the best performance bargains of all times.

I guess no one drank coffee in 1993 (needed a cup holder).  To get a lil extra bang for the buck I added underdrive pulleys, headers, more aggressive exhaust and a cold air intake system.  

 This car is a blast to drive. I added 

some after market high performance 

stuff, it made all the difference!

302 cubic inch engine.

More horse power stock.

 Owned a 2006 Ford Fusion SEL and loved it. After 93000 miles I decided to trade it on a 2012 Fusion Hybrid. Wife and I looked at Prius Hybrid but thought the interior looked cheap and my wife and I decided we like the comfort the Fusion offered, plus 0-60

in 8.6 second instead of 12 seconds for the Prius. Fusion is very fast off the line. Good for passing. We bought the car the 4th of July and are learning how to maximize gas milege. We average 39 mpg over all. Today I got 45.9 mpg on 45 to 55 miles an hour driving. Some people said they get 36 average. My wife was hesitant about buying a hybrid at first but now is a believer in hybrid. We both like all the bells and whistles. 

 I am the first and only owner of my 2011 fusion hybrid.  I have 108,700 miles on it and the only thing I have had repaired is my tires.  It's a great car and I am so thankful for it.  I just wish dealers would stop trying to sell me on fixing things for this car that I don't need.  They think I am going to buy their bullshit because the car has so many miles on it.  This car is made to last.  If I need something fixed on it I get a trusted friend to advise me, not the dealerships.  It so sad that I love my car but I can't find a ford dealership service that I can trust.  I actually had the last dealer tell me my battery was bad and that it had died on them - so I needed a new one.  That's hilarious because it's never ever ever had a dead battery - probably because it has a freakin huge hybrid battery that keeps it well charged.  duh!!!  I told the dealer it was dead because they did something that made it die.  Of course he denied that.  Said he saw evidence of battery clamps on the battery - that's because we are always charging up someone else's car!!!!!  Love my ford, just wish FORD was pushing for integrity of their dealership service providers!!!!

 read the reviews here before buying this car. bought the car May 2010. Love this car! only had one problem with a sencior in passager seat for the air bag, for the passager side. fixed and no problems. the syc, doesn't work with all phone's, not with iPhone, or some droid's. the mpg are good real good. like other review's to get the best mpg, get the car up to the speed posted quick and cruze. trying to speed up real slowly will not increase your mpg. up to 35.8 mpg avg. highest to date was 36.0 mpg. letting the car idle to warm up in the winter will cut your mpg. so no warm up's in the cold days and your mpg will not go down. We are very happy with this car and very glad we got it.

love all the little things that came with our car.

 I stopped by a dealer to take another look at the Fusion Hybrid.  I wanted to make sure this was the car I wanted even though I had thoroughly researched the vehicle on Edmunds.  The car in stock had just rolled off the transporter and happened to be exactly what I intended to eventually buy.  After test driving the car I decided to buy it on the spot.  I was expecting to get 30/38 city/highway. I've had the car about three weeks now and have been getting 41 city and 40 highway.  This is outstanding for a car this comfortable and quiet.  Recently drove a new BMW 3 series turbo diesel and believe the Fusion is more comfortable and handles about 98% as well as the BMW. It's the best car I've owned.

My favorite features are many.  The display is absolutely amazing and provides great information.  Sync is extremely easy to use and truly makes using the phone while driving as safe as having a conversation with a passenger. I Love the CVT transmission and Atkinson Cycle Engine; very refined. 

I wish they could have saved a little more trunk space but this has not been a problem thus far.  Everything else has been flawless.

 14-months after initial purchase, I have had no problems with the car.

 I have kept track of all fuel purchases and long-term fuel mileage is 37 mpg, mostly commuting (app. 17 miles in Boston area).

 Our lifetime MPG is 38.9 actual (40.4 on the trip computer.) Like my conventional vehicle the mileage swings by several miles per gallon based on driving conditions and weather. Yesterday I got 53.9 MPG on the way to work and 45.4 on the way home. Having owned mostly Japanese vehicles, it will take me awhile to trust the reliability. So far we have had to replace the right front wheel bearing (under warranty). The factory tires (Michelin) need replacing already, which is disappointing. The "0" key on the driver's keypad no longer illuminates. $200 fix. The electric driver's seat is binds when you adjust it to the rear. I'm not sure hybrid tech is cost effective.

Good crash test rating.Comfortable. Attractive interior and exterior. Heated leather seats. Acceptable fuel economy for a hybrid of this size/price.

I am skeptical of the long term quality of the vehicle. I don't buy a car so that I can take time off of work and start dumping money into repairs. I've never had a vehicle with a seat that would bind when adjusting it, no matter how old it was. There is no reason that the LEDs that illuminate the keypad shouldn't last 10 years or more. The infotainment system is busy and inconvenient. The GPS is the least user-friendly that I have used. Compared to Magellan or Tom-Tom, it takes too many key strokes to navigate the menus and enter a destination.

 I've waited 6 months to write a review on my new Fusion Hybrid, to see how it's been going.  I must say I made the right choice for me.  95% of my driving is in the city and I am overall averaging between 43-44 mpg - better than what Ford lists.  I cannot believe the great mpg, the car is so far very solid, fun to drive, and definitely an eye catcher.  Everyone I know told me to "but a real car" - now all the nay-sayers are telling me what a great choice I made and that they love this car. I really don't care what they thought anyway, but it is nice to hear. Time will tell if the mpg holds up and I am hoping it will.  If you do mostly city driving - this is the car for you!

MPG, Sync, and SIRIUS

 Driven the car 10,000 miles in 7 months without a single hitch. Mileage averages almost exactly 40 MPG in largely city driving, but varies wildly from a low of 25 on cold, very hilly trips to a high of 70.0 on a flat to downhill trip on a warm day. The thing we did not expect about this car was the genius of its design and the fact that it just does everything very well to exceptionally well. Let people whine about having no gas cap. You really do have to search to find something not to like other than our rather lame dealer with his staff that "doesn't really believe in global warming."  Just buy one already for the car itself even if you are a silly "non-believer" like the service guy. 

Comfort, quiet, surprising drivability and overall quality. It's a solid car that just happens to be a wise decision for you and the environment. 

Look to find a dealer with better trained sales staff than ours and a better organized service department. Would not change anything about the car.  

 I was super thrilled about the Ford Fusion Hybrid and fell in love with the car at the dealership...so many amenities for the price, and I wanted a green car.  But, after just 5 month, one day my car would not start.  It's been just shy of 2 months since, and the dealer is STILL trying to figure it out.  Ford flew out an engineer this week to fix it.  Beyond that, Ford has been completely unresponsive to my calls and letters.  I've driven Ford vehicles for years, so this is a major disappointment.  

Fix the electrical issues.  Homelink would be nice.  

 I purchased a Fusion Hybrid SE 4 weeks ago.

The car drives great, handles turns with ease, and accelerates decently for a 2.0L.

The seats too are very comfortable and the look of the car is fantastic.

The MPG however isn't even close to the advertised 47/47.

I've put 1500+ miles on the car and my best MPG is 38.

 Have had my car for 4 weeks, 1400 miles.

So far I've averaged around 44 mpg overall, but have hit 52 on certain drives.

I love all the tech features in the car (I got a number of the options), including adaptive cruise control, lane control, cross-traffic alert, blind spot warning, voice control for climate/entertainment, etc.

 Quality of everything feels very good & very European;

if it didn't have Ford badges, could easily (from inside or out) be mistaken for a Volvo/Audi type of car (I traded from an Audi).

 I got the car about two years ago, from my aunt who is possibly the worst car owner on the planet. The car was broken down, barely running, dirty, everything was broken. I got my hands on it, and about 1300 dollars later, it was running good. The best part about this car is how fun it is to drive. I can take off faster than half of the cars my friends have. The car feels alive, you can feel it. I just wish it was a little bit better quality. The interior is nice, but cheap. You can tell. The outside is styled well, but it's also made with some cheap-looking parts. It also feels like it won't be running so good in a few years. Who knows, it might last me forever.

Fun to drive, fast, lively engine, styled well for a 2000, awesome speakers

cheap interior and exterior, mediocre build quality, back seat is cramped. 

 I bought the car with 60,000 miles on it. I have got to admit now that I was down in the dumps when I bought that Ford nightmare. The next day as I was driving to work the Ford nightmare had a fuel pump problem, and then the timing belt literally exploded and then oil leak and then fuel leak and then the AC broke down and then the water pump broke down and then the back power windows broke down and the car stereo broke down -- I had to hit it hard with my fist for it to function several times and then the Ford nightmare is a noise box and then and then and then. How many times did I say "and then" -  I have lost count.  Mayday Mayday Mayday DO NOT EVER BUY a FORD EVER Please...

I'm a polite guy I really do not want to curse.

 My 2000 Ford Focus is the only vehicle that I've bought brand new ... on an angry whim when another Ford I owned broke down one too many times.

Turns out, it was a great move. I've had it now for 12 years and it has 335,00 miles on it. I'm shooting for 400,000!

More importantly, other than routine maintainance, the car has only had mechanical problems 3 times in all those years and miles (a broken fan belt, and two failed alternators). That's it!

There are some minor things that have eventually failed, such as a CD player which, for some weird reason, only allows me to change CDs the first thing in the morning. I still drive it daily for work. I still drive it daily with no fears.

Very, very dependable car .... I've had only 3 mechanical problems in 12 years! Cute looking, comfortable to sit in for long periods. Great sound system. I love my Focus!

 This car was just totaled and that's the best thing that ever happened to us.  We have spent so much money on it: engine, lock cylinder, window motors, etc, etc.  There really is not much good that I can say about it.  I looked it up on the Ford website and it was the second worst Ford ever made and the worst Focus ever made.  It had over 100 recalls!  Stay away from this car!

 Very reliable! I have had my Ford Focus for 12 years and have never had any major problems Awesome gas milage at 32 mpg. I am six foot and it is a very confortable for me. My kids who are 5 ft. 5in. and 5ft. 6in. sat in the back seat for three hours driving to detriot with no complants. Has 200,000 miles on it and it still runs good. For its age it is still very stylish. Takes my wife to work 30 miles a day and only have to fill up the gas tank once a week. I would strongly recommend this car. Just gave it away for a 2008 for a newer 2008 Focus

 I purchased my Focus in 2001 with 33,000 miles and had no problems for the first 6 months; from then on it's been down hill. Recall on the rear wheel bearings, recall on the battery cable that also blew my alternator and battery, all 4 power window mechanisms have broken ($500), the brake job cost $500 because you have to get new rotors EVERY TIME -- they can't be machined, the cooling system needed extensive repair ($2000-$3000), the electrical control for the air conditioner broke ($379), the CD player broke, haven't gotten that repaired yet, the ignition cylinder locked closed so I couldn't put the key in -- $1000 plus tow, and the trunk lock broke ($700). To make it short, over $7,000 in repairs thus far.

None. Everything has broken.

NEVER buy a Ford let alone a Focus.

 2001, bad year for the Focus.  Build 

quality issues.  Simple things like 

rivets and screws, failing or missing 

entirely.

36,000 mile warranty not near enough 

 I bought this vehicle new in 2001 (Focus ZX3 hatchback; 5-speed manual with no air conditioning or electric windows).

This is the best car I've ever owned.

We now have over 225,000 miles on the car with little maintenance.

By keeping up on the oil changes/tune-up's, we've had no major issues other than changing out the ignition once while it was still under warranty.

Great mpg (30-40 avg overall); I mostly drive freeway.

 I bought this car over a year ago and should've taken it to a mechanic.

I bought it for $1200 from a guy in my town.

It had 251000 miles on it.

I drove it 3 thousand miles the first month I had it.

To date I have replaced the battery(it had a go-cart battery when I bought it), rear wheel bearings, rear and front brakes, alternator, full front suspension, new tires.

 My husband and I have had nothing but problems since we got our flex. What's worse is the countless number of times we have to take it in to the dealer. They do not acknowledge the fact that this car should be considered a lemon. It has a foul smell coming from the ac/heater, the brakes grind and pulsate when you apply pressure, the interior has a constant rattling sound, the front console latch broke off within one month of buying it, the cheap plastic air vent covers fell off within 6 months of buying the vehicle, and the transmission grinds, jerks, pops, and seizes up often. We bought it from ken grody ford in carlsbad, ca and they sold it to us with electrical problems in the headrest!

Overall I hate this car. I regret buying and the pretty exterior and fancy features are not enough to make me like it! I would declare it a lemon!

I suggest they actually fix what is wrong with the flex instead of making excuses as to why they have no responsibilty for fixing things that are covered under warranty.

 I HATE HATE HATE to say it but the title reads true! My father retired with Ford and our family has a LONG history of buying/owning Ford vehicles! BUT this one missed the mark.



 My husband and I have been married 37 years and have always been Ford owners.  The best purchase ever is the Ford Flex.  We like to travel and the ride and comfort in the Flex makes the trip enjoyable and relaxing.  Our family and friends have alot of precious memories spent together traveling in the Flex. We tell everyone how much we "love" our Flex and recommend it as a great car to purchase.  I can't wait for Ford to offer another 0% financing on the Flex so I can purchase a new one to enjoy.  I don't understand why Ford does not advertise the "Flex" because to me it is the best car on the road.

Very easy driving; comfortable seating; big enough but not too big; Sirius radio; miles per gallon; rides fantastic.

Headrests on front 2 seats - they stick out too much and is very uncomfortable.  The phone needs improving - I don't use mine anymore because it would not work correctly and people on the other end couldn't understand me.  Would not get one in another car.  Not worth the money.

 My wife and I drove numerous cars before deciding to purchase our 1st and last Ford vehicle. At first it seemed to be the answer to all of our needs. We purchased this car new in NOV 08. Within 6mnths,we had to take the car in to have the "sync" systems wiring harness replaced 4 times and the touch screen once! Within 16k miles (2 years) we had to replace the front rotors and brakes. And now just 11 months and 10k miles later, we now need to replace the front rotors again, the rear brakes and the rear rotors! Ford Corporate was of no help for this non-warranty item stating "normal/routine maintenance". Not to mention the horrible screeching sound that comes from the brakes, also "normal"

The amont of space in the 2nd row. The refrigerated rear center console. The vista roof.

 Purchased my Fiesta in Sept 2011...I actually had to order this car because they don't stay on the lots very long.

I drove this car from Abilene Texas to Dallas which is a three hour drive and boy does this car zip around.

It actually exceeded my expectations on the highway.

After three hours it gets a bit uncomfortable driving. I didn't buy the car for long distance anyway. I purchased it to save gas and get back and forth to work... a round trip of 40 miles.

It's great on gas and it's a fun car to drive.

 I'm a 20 year old college student and will be commuting 30 minutes away for the next fall semester and needed something that would be reliable and good on gas. I happened across the Fiesta out of curiosity.

I never dreamed I could afford a brand new car, the price and value are outstanding. It's attractive and drives wonderfully. The stick adds fun into the drive, and at over 100mph it rode like I was driving 40. The interior is attractive, and even though it lacks the luxury features I don't need any of that and really the only thing I notice I don't have is power windows.

 The speaker system is great, and necessary for the drive to school. The trunk has a lot of space too. Love this car.

Gas Mileage Fun to Drive Attractive Speakers Trunk Space Interior

Rear Leg Room Center Console Locks on Door

 Contemplated many cars before going with the Fiesta. Honda's Fit was a close second, but the Fiesta was much quieter at highway speed and gets better mileage. Took the Fiesta on a roadtrip from VA to ME last week, 2500 miles total mixed driving and got 39.3 mpg overall, A/C was almost always on too! Great mileage on backroads were I have gotten close to 50mpg! Front seats are comfortable even on 16hr trips! Back seats are fine for an hour or two, I'm 6'1" and don't mind. The auto trans is weird at slow speeds, but it is really a manual trans and shifts better than most people can shift a manual at low speeds, so with that perspective in mind it is fine, can't expect a slushbox-like shift!

Great headroom. Great mileage. Quiet Cabin. Comfortable seats even after 16 hours. Interior surfaces are nice. Very fun to drive. iPod compatibility. 10,000 mile service intervals (though I switched to synthetic oil at 2,000 miles, it's a better option IMO) I think it looks great inside and out. Very solid build, the doors have a satisfying sound when you close them. Ergonomics are decent. Not to mention the price! Bought a SE auto hatchback for $16,300! That's $2k less than a Fit! So, it you can't tell, overall I'm quite pleased, but there is room for improvement of course.

I trust that future versions of the automatic transmission will have better programming logic at both low and high speeds. I use the cruise + and - buttons on the steering wheel a lot, when speeding up it will downshift when it doesn't really need too, and I think that hurts fuel economy. I wish the back seats would fold down better, I know there isn't a lot of room to change that, but they don't fold flat, and getting the headrests off is a pain. For the first 2,000 miles I would have said it needs an armrest, but to be honest, know I don't miss it at all. SYNC is too convoluted for this Mac user, also syncing Bluetooth with my phone is hit or miss. 

 I Love: 1. The Gas Mileage (29 city/ 38 highway) 2. The Price ($19,000 with all packages) 3. The Features (heated seats, interior lighting, Sirius xm, push-to-start ignition, hands-free phone mode, temperature control, leather covered steering wheel, etc.) 4. The design (lights, body, interior are all stylish, no road noise) 5. The stock security system  I Hate: 1. That there are no stock arm rests 2. There are very limited Sedan models out on the market 3. how the stock shifting knob is plastic 4. The hands-free device doesn't always recognize the voice commands you give it 5. the stock seats have a weird design printed on them.

1. Gas Mileage 2. Hands-Free Stereo system 3. Auto-Dimming rear view mirror 4. Body style (interior, exterior and lights)

 The car is very quiet,even on the highway.

The engine could use more power/pep.

The car inside and out is very stylish.

The fit and finish could use some fine tuning.

Also, visor extenders when using visors on the side would be a nice touch.

 I purchased a 2011 Ford Fiesta in August of 2010.

It is an automatic, not manual transmission. Within a month it was back at Ford with transmission issues and has continued to have problems despite at least 10 trips to the Ford Shop.

I was told by Ford Engineer that it must be the way I was driving it.

They felt I was breaking with my left foot with my foot not completely off the gas.

I do not break with my left foot.

 This vehicle was purchased with economy in mind - I purchased it used at a ford Dealer with 14,000 miles. It has proven to have very good Fuel Mileage (38mpg) highway . I did not expect a soundproof air ride and the car has provided basic transportation as I expected. I do like the fold down back seat as I can carry longer items through the trunk. - The Radio is the worst I have ever seen lucky for the CD player. I have had the recalls reported taken care of at the dealer without incident. I do change my own oil and filter every 4,000 miles with genuine Moto-craft parts. At 45,000 I replaced the front brakes. Here is where I have issue - at 57,000 miles and just a year of ownership I brought the vehicle in for the yearly inspection sticker. I get a call within an hour that the car needs upper and lower balljoints it has a leaking front CV seal and bad bearing. The Ball joints were not available and had to be ordered so three days later I get the car back--- Call Ford and not covered by warranty - That is my issue-- If you build something stand behind your product. with only 57,000 highway miles and serviced regularly this is not abuse or neglect. this is poor quality. This is my review... the vehicle was not cheap I paid dealer price and expected serviceability for at least three uninterrupted years.   Tires, breaks, maintenance --- ok, Needed-- However  mechanical and operation breakdowns are not acceptable traits to be positive about.

 Bought the car in February 2012. Fifteen months later the stereo started "crackling" from a lose wire. Another 4 months later (150 miles past the warranty) the A/C stopped working. Ford repaired the A/C at no cost only after I told them what was wrong with it and how much I KNEW it would cost them for the part. The part was less than $100 and they wanted over $900 to repair it! It took them approximately 40 minutes to repair it while I waited. I've had the car for 3 years and 9 months. The window handle has fallen off, have had A/C and stereo issues, and now there is clutch fluid leaking onto my floor mat! This car just proves that when you buy cheap, you get cheap! I will NEVER AGAIN buy another Ford!!!   I'm going back to a Toyota Camry next time. They are most definitely worth the higher car note every month.

 I traded down to save on gas and overall maintenance costs.

So far I am extremely happy with the Fiesta SE automatic.

It handles great and has a little pep to it once it gets going.

 Like everything about this car except transmission gear whine in 5th gear (manual transmission), like traveling on the highway so not good. Dealer says they will rebuild the transmission but I'm thinking there is too big of downside to that. Waited a long time to get a new car and a Ford so really dissapointing, will probably drive a year and trade.

Manual transmission

 Have owned the SE for three weeks. The Transmission prefers a very light touch when starting from a stop. It shifts 1-2-3 rapidly up to about 25 mph if you do it that way, very smoothly and quietly. Then you can push the accelerator more for nice quiet power. It will switch awkwardly if you give it heavy foot at low speed.

You definitely need to learn how it wants to be driven; once you do it's a pleasure to drive. At higher speeds very quiet engine (although at 70 the rpms almost reach 3K--I'd prefer 2300 at that speed), and minimal road/wind noise. If you do push the rpms, the engine sound is throaty and not at all unpleasant. Great mileage so far, about 33mpg at 60% city/40% highway

Attractive sporty exterior design, interior is dignified and comfortable. Even though I'm 6' with long legs, legroom is comfortable in front. Driver side there are three places you can comfortably plant your left foot, the one closest to brake pedal lets your left foot be almost fully extended. Decent visibility to the rear for parallel parking, etc. Logical controls layout. Glad it has a real (baby) spare tire. Excellent handling characteristics at all speeds, steering couldn't be better. I spent two weeks trying about a dozen cars in the class, and completely agree with Edmunds reviewers that the Fiesta "provides the most rewarding drive in its class."

  I was happy with the ride and feel until I hit 20K, and noticed a momentary grinding when I applied the brakes.

Sometimes a gaslike smell was noticed after breaking.

Quite a bit of black dust seemed to accumulate on the two rear wheels.

At 25K a periodic squeal was noticed but the Ford dealer inspected and said the brakes were "good".

At 29.5K the brakes made a grinding sound and were visably scored (rear left).

 I have 52k on the car and the rear brakes are having to be worked on again. They are telling me that it is the "elements", if Michigan driving is a problem for the brakes on this car they may have a few problems to work out! The rear parking sensor has stopped working, and is not covered under warranty, too many blind spots for this short girl to try and navigate blindly!Love the ride and comfort of the car but i think i will have to move on from my first and probably last ford vehicle. ford
braking system. audio for sync calls.

 i LOVE this car's comfort, style, buttons & cup holders where you need them.. ford always does a great job w/ that..

 BUT UNDER THE HOOD.. not so much.. :(

 Yes I have 242,000 miles on my '01 Wagon. I have had to replace my share of tires and brakes due to the 600+ miles I drive a week. 

In the 5 years I have owned the car, which I purchased used with 66,000 miles it, I haven't had a repair bill over $360. And that was for the water pump and the timing belt at 215,000 miles.

My sercet, is to change the oil every 3,000 miles. Do not wait the 3 months if you are driving like I do.

My only wish would be for the seats to sit a bit more like a chair. The low angle can get to you on long trips.

 I purchased my '01 Focus Wagon SE from a dealership in 2011 with ~190,000 mi on it for $2850. It has been almost 2 years now and this car has given me almost no grief. 

 I've had my new Fiesta for just over a week now, and I have to say, I'm incredibly impressed with its overall package. I downsized from a Mercury Grand Marquis LS to save on gas and to drive something much sportier for my age (23). To be such a small car, the Fiesta has plenty of front seat space, a feat in itself because I am 6'2 and 280 lbs. There is plentiful head and leg room; my only caveat would be the slightly narrow feel of the driver's side, though I can still get quite comfortable. As far as the back seat, it's a no-go for any practical use, but I didn't need the extra space, so it wasn't a deal-breaker for me. The features on the SE (along with the 203A package) are plentiful.

Sporty feel/look, Great mpg (around 35 combined but has approached 50 on hwy), Great entertainment features (aux input, USB, Sync), Spacious trunk, Responsive steering/braking, Impressive audio (with premium audio upgrade), Quiet engine/shifting, Great hill-assist feature, Luxurious feel to components, Modern appearance to dash layout, Plenty of head/leg room, Sporty suspension

Could use slightly wider cabin and more standard features (like power windows), Transmission performance at low speed is a little jagged feeling (though still quiet)

 I bought this car for good gas mileage as I have a lengthy commute. The vehicle performed well for the first 5K miles but since then I have been in and out of the dealership with automatic transmission problems. My Fiesta now has 23K miles and has been to the dealer five times for transmission work. The last two visits have resulted in major repairs in an attempt to fix the problem and still the problem persists. The transmission shudders, hesitates, and lurches in stop and go traffic or when slowing then starting up again such as at a stop light or stop sign. The dealership has acknowledged there is a problem with this transmission but thus far has refused to replace the transmission. Avoid

Handles well and great gas mileage. Very comfortable seats. Very roomy (I'm 6'7" and have great headroom and leg room in the driver's seat.

 Took over 3 months from ordering to possession but was well worth the wait. My wife and I absolutely love the car. It is the most comfortable car I have sat in. It is easy for a large man 6 ft 285 lbs to get in and out of. We are only averaging 40.9 mpg. I know it is not 47 but blame the EPA and not Ford. They make up the rules for the test, Ford just followed them. I am happy with the mileage, how many other roomy mid size sedans can get over 40 mpg?

3 position memory. Power passenger seat. Rear View camera. Rear Warning system, Cross Traffic alert, already saved me once in a parking lot. Adaptive cruise control is fantastic. Eco Cruise smooths out the ride. Lane change warning system is great although the first time it steered me back into the lane it felt weird. Love the rain sensing wipers and automatic bright/dim headlights. They react to an oncoming car faster than I can. 

Faster response to touch in MFT. It works well, just a little slow to respond as compared to a smartphone or tablet. Better voice recognition. (It doesn't like my wife's voice)

 I am a recent buyer, having had the car for just a few weeks. So far, absolutely nothing about this car disappoints. Mileage is over 40 in town driving, and comfort is amazing.

The seats are probably the most supportive in this category, and the handling is certainly the most crisp and confidence inspiring. Handles like nothing else in this class. 

 The ztec is a great little engine.  my car has 162000 miles (260000km).  originally paid $16280USD ttl included.  i've been through two sets of all weather tires and two sets of winter tires (pass driving is much easier with snow tires).  I've replace the brakes twice, one set of struts, timing belt replaced (yes, it is a necessary maintenance item at about 100K.  two sets of spark plugs, an EGR valve and an O2 sensor and tie rod ends thanks to the crappy seattle roads. Oil changes every 5000 miles and transmission oil changed  every 30K miles.  I just replace the batter for the second time in 15 years.  It's been a super inexpensive car to own. and I rely on it for 350 mile trips on a regular basis.

If you find a well maintained  2000-2004 SW with a ztec engine,  it should be a fine car to own and drive.

 My focus has been going strong for 184k miles, which probably isn't the norm. It idles rough from an unbalanced engine. The power locks and a/c don't work. The headlights are easily scratched and get really dim. The hatch doesn't hold open in the cold. I've had to replace the ignition ($300) struts ($400) ball joints ($500) and vacuum hose ($80) in the 60k miles I have owned it.

CHEAP

It's a decent, easy to fix car for cheap. Good for a first time driver or someone on a low budget. If you can afford it, get a better car.

 I just purchased the 2013 Ford Fusion Hybrid.

I picked the car up in Toledo, Ohio and immediately left for Knoxville, Tennessee.

The trip was 450 miles.

I drove between 65 and 70 the whole trip.

I used cruise control whenever I could and did not hesitate to use the gas pedal when I needed.

 Onwed my 2010 FFH for 23 months now just over 67,000 miles. I drive 135 miles per day combination city and highway. Mileage is 41 -44 summer (over 70 degrees) winter never worse than 35. 2 minor issues that dealer took care of rear brake squeek at 20,000 and fan blower motor replacement at 30,000. Owned a 2008 Honda civic hybrid before this, no comparision to the refinement, seemless gas/electric operation and driving comfort of the Fusion hybrid. Would buy another in a minute.

Seemless operation of hybrid system. Driving comfort.

Ford should upgrade they choice of braking material. Current material glazes over and will make noise.

 I was one of the first to buy the Fusion Hybrid in October 2009. So far all it has needed was an oxygen sensor at 92k and a left front wheel bearing at 135k. I replaced the tires at 62k and the regular battery went at 5 years, typical. I just put the 2nd set of new tires on at 135k. I averaged 42 mpg while down in sunny Florida. For the past year I've been in upstate NY. Mileage has taken a drop. Ivthink mostly because of the colder temps, motor runs mire for heat. To address some of the other reviewers issues, who haven't owned their's as long. 1- mileage. If you live in the cold, don't expect great mileage. But also consider how bad a regular car would do in that same situation. 2- direction of travel makes a difference on a trip. I've been all over the country, and wind plays a big part in your mileage. 3 - if your an agressive driver, don't expect miracles from a hybrid. 4 - after sitting in the sun the mileage will be a lot lower than if I just came out of the cool garage. Must be the added use of ac. Overall, the cost of ownership has been very low.

 Bought the Fusion hybrid new in 2010. In four years have had two major issues, causing the car to render itself dead. The first time was in the middle of a multi-lane bridge with fast moving traffic, with a stop-immediately warning, leading to seconds of active time before car had to be pulled into shoulder. Towed, charged $500 or so. Two years later get another message "service power steering now" and the car again is unstartable. This time Ford service is quoting $1800 plus a diagnosis fee. 

 I had this car (2010 FFH) for almost 2 years now.

The odometer now is at 199,842 Miles. 

Yes, I know.. I've driven this car a lot! and I just love it.. never had any "serious" problem with it, just the basics (oil, tires, filters, brakes).

The only comment I can make, is about the mpg, now it's an average of 31-32 MPG, which is much lower than what was claimed (36-41). I've tried changing the spark plugs, tires, gasoline. still average of 31-32. However, I am a bit of aggressive driver, so I can understand why it won't go any close to 35.



 nice line takeoff for cheap. The 302

engine is a great engine. I know people

with 220k. Overall, I have been pleased.

Light backend for easy burnouts. 

longer shelf life for parts.

 An honest, fun, and dependable car.  

One watre pump in 94,000 miles and 

still running on the original clutch.  

The engine just goes and goes and goes 

and the manual transmission is rock 

 What can i say that hasn't allready been mentioned about this great little car.

For starters, in it's time it was the best bang for the buck, and still is 

( have you read about the 03 cobra !!). Combnation of V8 pwr. and 5 spd.

trans. makes this a FUN CAR TO DRIVE. Put the top down and you have

instant bliss.Fox body style ending in 93 is by far the most sought after body

 This is the best and nicest car I've owned to date. Sure, it has a few upgrades, but that's also what makes this car amazing. It has an incredibly large aftermarket that supplies Mustang enthusiasts with high quality yet affordable parts. My GT came with: Cobra intake manifold/Cobra 65mm throttle body, headers, catted h pipe, catback, lowered, welded subframe connectors, upper/lower HD rear control arms, Tokiko shocks, short throw shifter, HD clutch, 3.55 gears, MSD 6A ignition, more. These mods made it handle like it's on rails, and beat EVOs and SRT-4s whenever I feel like it.

5.0L V8, burnouts on command, sport seats, light weight.

Basic intake/exhaust upgrades, suspension, gears (at least 3.55s), good tires (drag radials or slicks for the track), RADAR DETECTOR!

 I bought this Mustang a few years 

ago.  It has brought me years of 

 This is a fun car to drive.  It has alot of power and torque.

 My wife's brother bought this car new. He gave it to our daughter when she turned 16. She drove it 3 years until her employer bought her a new pickup in 2007. She then gave it to our 16 year son. With the exception of several brake jobs and a few batteries It has done well. It now has 116K miles on it. It runs well, other than regular maintaince the drive train is untouched. It has had some cosmetic work (paint, upolstery, & top redone.) It has been a great car that the whole family has had fun with. Not too many cars last a buyer this long.

5.0 engine, handling, looks.

Cup holder, better radio, very stiff ride.

 Super fun car! Fast great style

 I bought this car from it's original owner for $1200 with only 98k miles on it.

It was my first car and at 15, I was in love at first site.

Mine was the 4 cylinder with the automatic and it was the most reliable car I've owned yet, even beating out my 91 Accord (chalk one up for America!).

I was proud of my Stang and babied it.

I kept up with it and made sure it was maintained.

 Great car. Built very well, never had any problems other than the usual replacing of water pump, hoses, and alternator after 80 or so thousand miles of driving. The alternator was actually due to not being able to handle my 750w amp and sound system. Vehicle is very easy to work on. Very light. Can't stress that enough, especially compared to todays vehicles. Not nearly as comfortable, but it does have something that todays cars lack, and that's raw excitement. Nothing today feels like the way you do when you stomp on the throttle and hear the 5.0 roar as it sinks you back and makes you feel as if your car is tearing through the wind and clawing at the asphalt. Very exciting.

Light weight! Think of a Ford Focus, (Modern) Honda Civic, Nissan Sentra, etc. But with the hp and torque of an old school pushrod V8. Easy to work on design, huge aftermarket to increase performance to that of, or better than, modern performance. Large cargo space capability (hatchback). Timeless look

No cupholders! Usual rust around the glass frames and hatch. Small width of rear tires don't stand a chance to the globs of torque this small V8 thumps out. Full length sub-frames help a ton with chasis creeks and groans along with a more comfortable ride, to me anyways. By todays standard, more HP.

 The car was purchased for my wife as a 

pleasure car and has been very trouble 

 This is the best car I've ever had. I bought the car with 50,000 miles on it and it now has 147,000 miles on it and I've only had the alternator replaced, exhaust and lower balljoints. When you buy one make sure you have enough money to buy tires. 

Tire smokin' torque, reliable engine, ice cold A/C. 

Better brakes.

 What is there left to say about the Mustang that countless magazines and newspaper articles haven't.  It is the definitive American icon.  A muscle car that has captured the hearts and minds of the American people and won't let go. The 1990 Mustang is a great all around car whose current prices are hard to pass up.  With the legendary 302 in the engine bay this car is a force to be reckoned with.  Its light weight give it a distinct advantage over modern muscle. Another great feature of this car is the great aftermarket availiability. Over all a well maintained Mustang is very reliable and fun to drive. Take a test drive and you'll be singing it's praises too.

302 Engine. Light weight. Excellent driving position.

 This is a great car to drive short 

distances, but the poor suspension and 

lack of good seats make long drives 

difficult.  The sound system is good, 

but you can't hear it without blasting 

 We've owned this car for over 15 years and despite the great expense and poor performance, my husband wouldn't get rid of it until a truck totaled it while parked (thank you truck driver).  Very loud car. Due to the convertible pillars, vision was lousy.  The car could not drive in any little bit of snow, and was even pretty unsafe in the rain. We experienced the overall quality of early 1990's Ford cars, which is to say expensive to maintain with many quality control issues.

Good looking. Fun in the summer.

Quality control.  

 My 1990 LX convertible is my baby; I've had her for about 4 years now. I get about 9 miles to the gallon with the top down (about 21-25 with it up). She needs constant cajoling and almost weekly repairs, but I have been able to do most of them with no training and very few tools, and there's nothing better than putzing on a car in the afternoon. I swear I've replaced half that car by now, but parts are cheap and the repairs are usually easy (quarter windows are miserable, avoid at all costs). There are no atheists driving her in the rain, I've skidded sideways through more lanes than I can count. The one airbag is a nice thought. The engine is so big it barely charges the battery during city driving, and I have to get her on the highway at 60MPH once a week for a 10-30 minutes to recharge her just so she starts up every morning .... I know, poor me. Compared to modern cars, the controls are spartan - and this is the LX, with cruise, power windows, mirrors and locks. But every time I start that 5.0 up and hear that roar I smile. Every time I leave jerks driving Hondas in the dust when the light turns green light I grin. Handling that car is epic (as long as the pavement is dry) and the sound and feel of that engine is amazing. I can't ever imagine driving something else, because this car makes me so happy. Fox 4 for life. Some tips for future owners: keep water and oil in the trunk ALWAYS, and learn how to check everything. ALWAYS get the car out on the highway for a little while a week; they just behave themselves better if you do that. Be prepared to replace pieces often. And enjoy that thing!

 This car is the best in my opioion of the ideal car for the modern age. Mixed in with the best of the muscle of the oldschools. It also has a appealing look to it. And many aftermarket/clubs to get ahold of. It really is a eye- catcher and a rollercoaster at the same time. It's a bit scary going fast until your used to it. It's a perfect learner car because of it's safety and airbags which were put in on the 90's models.

 I purchased my Stang in Sept. 2004 for a weekend driver. I am very pleased with the 2.3l. I have replaced the stock rims with a set of 17 inch Cobra R wheels with 245/45/17 tires on them. Have entered it in a couple car shows so far. I will purchase another Mustang if this one ever wears out. Good driver. Gets lots of looks on the road,

The feature i wanted was the rag top. V8 would have been nice but not required.

The 2.3 could've used a little more horsepower.

 Had to wait 14 years to find my dream car but this is it. I wanted one when I graduated HS in '92 now I found one with 58,000 miles and in perfect condition. Great American car.

Power, looks.

 This was supposed to my project car. I own a 2005 Scion Tc also. Since I bought the Mustang I haven't driven the Tc. This 5.0 is amazing. Just a full tune up and I was having the time of my life. I'm never selling this car.

Little upgrades really show big power improvement.

Better seats and rear disc brakes

 I am the second owner of a 47K mile 1985 5.0 LX vert. I love this car, i have a chevy Volt i drive daily and have this as a weekend nice weather cruiser. The car has a bunch of upgrades and a few things removed, because at this point it is a classic and will never have to be smogged again. The car by today's standards is horribly inefficient, extremely unsafe, and the fit and finish from day one was terrible. They rusted the day you left the lot, and there are not many left that are either original cars, or were looked after there entire life. The convertibles suffer from chassis twist due to torque, and there are quite a bunch of them out there that are permanently bent. What makes these cars great is the simplicity, anyone can pick up a cheap set of tools and wrench on these cars, the parts are cheap, and with less than 1000.00 you can put together a junk yard 500+HP build. Mechanically they are pretty well bulletproof, and are very simple to fix when they break. These however are not cars you buy to daily drive any longer, unless you are a kid, who has the time to work on them weekly to fix things, and does not care about safety or fuel costs.  All this being said, the sound of the old small block 5.0 is intoxicating, the grunt when you lift off the clutch and the gear engages, and the RPM's rise is what draws the motor heads to these cars, and the reason mine will be mine until i die. 

Here is a brief list for anyone checking reviews for a Fox body mustang they want to buy.. 

 Hard to get in front due to height and no running boards. Also lack of opening windows in rear. But otherwise totally awesome!

 If like myself, owned 12 passenger Chevy and a 15 passenger Ford.

 I ride in a vanpool that travels about an hour each way to and from our downtown area every day.  We recently received a brand-new 10-passenger Transit van after having the older Ford van for several years.  I have to say, this is the most uncomfortable van we've ever had to ride in.  The front seat isn't too bad, except that you have to take a giant step up to get in it.  The back seats are horrible.  The Transit is much narrower than the older model, and the seats show it.  You can hardly fasten the seatbelts because you're sitting on the receptacle (which is rigid and digs into your backside the entire trip).  Whoever designed the seats obviously never sat behind one, because there is a bar that runs across the inside of the seat back that sits right at knee level of the person behind it, so that there is no possible position to sit in where your knees aren't hitting this bar.  I'm 5'7" and I have to sit sideways to be able to fit my knees in the rear seats.  It's a joke to call them captains chairs when there is no separation.  You'd better like the person you're sitting next to because you are touching the entire time.  The seats have little to no support and feel cheaply made.  The running board that is supposed to help you get into the back of the vehicle is also very narrow, to the point of being dangerous.  You can't just step down onto it when exiting the vehicle, if you did only your heel would fit.  You have to turn your foot and body sideways to be able to get any use out of it, and even then you have to be very careful not to slip (I can tell you from personal experience, it's a long way down).   On top of the utter discomfort of this vehicle, we've only had it for a couple of months and it already broke down!   When we had to call our Metro company to tell them we were broken down on the side of the freeway and described the issue, we were told that they had several of these vans with the same problem - the throttle body.   The A/C works - that's the only positive thing I can say about it.  This van is so bad that I am considering not even riding in a vanpool anymore, and I've been on it for years.  The prospect of being stuck with this vehicle for the next few years is depressing.

 I have had this van for 5 months now -

The Good:

Tons of room inside

Lots of seats, 12- to 15

 I have purchased a low roof, 148 wheelbase 15 passenger ford transit wagon with the 3.5 liter ecoboost engine. It drives very well and I get an average of 18 mpg so far mostly highway. It fits in my 7 foot garage door also.

 I purchased the van for large family trips.  For seat planning for large families I have included this guide.

row one,  2 seats driver and passenger

row two,  3 seats together that can be removed

row three and four, 3 seats of which the driver 2 or the passenger 1 can be removed. Aisle between them

 First few days of ownership. Overall fit and finish: excellent.  Rides amazingly well even without load. Super-quiet, comfortable interior (King Ranch).  Complicated, but very capable nav system.  A dream to drive with great acceleration (for an 8700
Incredible payload handling. Bold styling. Well-made, quiet, with no rattles.  WONDERFUL sound system. 

Larger engine compartment to avoid pulling cab for maintenance.

 I had originally reviewed this truck well over a year ago.  Since that time I've had the rad replaced twice and then a loss of power problem.  Ford replaced the fuel pump, but that didn't fix the problem.  After 6 months of back and forth they finally figured out it was the high pressure pump.  Towing a 18K lb trailer was a challenge on a recent trip when the truck kept losing power. Thankfully they finally fixed it!  I have to admit, Ford did help out in the way of giving me a rental vehicle and covering everything under the Powertrain warranty.  But would I buy another one?  Nah.  Should have gone for one of those Freightliners!

Very nice features.  Nav, 6 disc player, leather seats... all the bells and whistles!

 This truck is a piece of crap! Ford does not want to help with customer care.  In 29,000 miles I've replaced 3 radiators, 1 secondary cooling system, left rear axle seal, Turbo pick up tube, 2 power steering pumps and a crank seal! 

DO NOT BUY this truck! Burn it and walk away..........

 This is one big truck! We purchased this so we can tow our 40' toy hauler. The 1 tons won't do the job. The quality of this truck is impressive.The 6.4L diesel barely makes a sound and the interior is amazing!  Navigation, rear DVD for the kids, 6 disc CD, wow!  This truck handles and feels like a car but you're above the traffic and know you're in a truck.  Ford made the right choice to make a commercial truck into a heavy duty hauler for a family. More people are buying large 5th wheels and this is the natural choice. And I know I made the right one!

Handling, power, navigation, comfort, it's all good. Some people complain about the fuel consumption. Sure it's not great, but this is a commercial vehicle. I get over 13 MPG, very acceptable for the size and weight of the vehicle. It can tow up to a 24,500 lb 5th wheel , ours is only 18,000

Very hard to park, but that's really not a complaint. You have to know you're buying a very large truck. Fuel consumption: as I said you're buying a commercial grade vehicle, know what you're getting.

 After having multiple check engine lights come on while driving on the Interstate, I've had it.  Contacted Premier Diesel and Auto in Mansfield TX who told me this 6.4 engine is horrible.  They advised me to sell or trade it.  The engine was made by International not Ford.  They said the engines just "blow up" and they have multiple trucks sitting on their property that need new 6.4 engines.  Just bought the truck used in February and having to take a loss to trade it in.  Wish I knew then what I know now.

 This truck is junk! The truck is in the shop more than its on the road. My dealer has been excellent but the truck is not! When you go to the dealer their shop is field with 6.4 trucks. I have been a Ford guy my whole life but not any more. Dodge here I come

truck is beautiful!!

go back to the drawing board and fix these truck before you loose all of your customers.

 I hear alot of discussion on the 2008 ford f-450 and a few reviews stated that they had some serious problems with thier vehicles well i work for a company that operates mostly ford vehicles some chevys too.we use these trucks for dump trucks and heavy haul such as excavators backhoes etc and the ford has really outdone the chevrolet in terms of quality and power the ford responds better in the steering and even acceleration we put these trucks through some of the worst conditions there are and have not had a problem with the trucks at all i had one turbo go out thats it so for those of you who need a powerfull trck for towing and hauling heavy loads thr ford is the truck to buy

 We have the 2013 ford Fiesta Hatchback titanium, and its a nice looking car... so there are a few problems with this car, at 12000km, the transmission started shuttering, felt like when you shift a manual car too early, now we took it to ford and they did there little quick fix, and it stopped shuttering for a good week, then it was back with a vengance, it got so bad that when you accelerated you might have 0-60 in 9 seconds, or 0-60 in 20 seconds, depending on the cars "mood", so we took it in and with less then 30'000 km(18641mi) on it, replaced transmission, clutchplate and clutch, and the shuttering is starting again, a week later. also, Im 5'11" and i hit my head on the roof.

favorite features, are, its blue, the L.E.D. underglow in the cab, and it's heated seats

Get rid of the Rubbish Automatic transmission, it's total garbage (same thing with the 2012 ford focus), ecoboost would be nice, and better tires to start, our tires only have 30000km on them and there's already a bulge in one. 

 The thing about the transmission; this is not your typical automatic transmission. If you let off the gas at low speeds in between gears, it will shift. Once you get past 2nd gear, it acts more like an automatic. Keep this in mind when you buy this car. Treat it like a you would a manual with no clutch petal at low speeds because that is what this is. It took some getting used to but I am willing to deal with it for awesome fuel economy that it gets. Comfort is great up front. Gadgets are really nice to have. Steering is like second nature. Maybe Ford should explain that the transmission is brand new technology and there is a technique to making it shift more smoothly at lower speeds.

Update: it needed updated parts but it was all done for free and the warranty extended. I think I got lucky with this car. The symptoms in the first review ^^ were because it had the faulty parts. Glad it was under warranty or I'd be joining the "sue Ford" band wagon.

 I have had this car for around a month. I live in southern California and it has already been to South Dakota and back. The car was amazing during the 3000 mile round trip. Comfortable for as small as it is. I'm a big guy and I fit nicely. The interior is very much better then I could.have hopped for. The soft touch feels better then cheap hard plastic. I'm not a huge fan of the red lights I like the blue of the newer models. The accent lighting is a useless touch but makes the car stylish.  The 6 speaker sound system I'd amazing. Great bass, and clear highs. A big plus was no rattling from the speakers. The sound system is a little confusing and hard to use but works very well. Interior road noise is heard but not over the top. Engine noise is very present but in a way that makes you want to work it. The engine revs to redline very smoothly. It feels at home at higher rpm. The Powershift transmission is different.  It is weird and parking lot speeds but under hard acceleration it wakes up. There is almost no torque loss between shifts and is very eager to get moving. It's a great concept but needs some refinement.  I swore I'd never drive a small car again. But I am very happy with this little ford Fiesta.  Ford did their homework with this car. Nothing better then a warm so Cal night by the beach moonroof open windows down music up. My advise, take a serious look at this car. It's heart is bigger then it's size. I was able to get it to 105 mph and the car drove straight, and on corse. Breaking is on the weak side. Rear disk word have been a better option. Very happy with this little car.

 I've owned my Fiesta for 7 months, and have already had the "automatic" transmission repaired after the clutch went out.

Unfortunately for me, this went out while I was on vacation and using the cruise control on a wide-open interstate. 

I had some concerns about the transmission from the moment I got it, since it shifted loudly and had odd hesitations that were very scary (like pulling forward across two lanes while attempting to turn left on a 3-lane road, and suddenly finding a complete loss of power and oncoming traffic).

Ford was awesome throughout the repair, however.

 I've had a 2013 Fiesta SE sedan with the PowerShift automatic transmission for a little over a year.

At 6,500 miles it needed substantial transmission repairs.

It's still noisy like a coffee grinder, very poor acceleration, with a long - and dangerous - hesitation when needing to accelerate quickly.

A few times it has shifted into the wrong gear which is pretty jolting.

At first the dealer agreed there was something wrong and did the repairs.

 It has well-documented problems with transmission (clutch). I wish I'd read this before buying it. It jerks when starts moving and feels absolutely unsafe when driving it. A good exterior design is what makes people to be attracted by this car. It's heavily overprices and it's losing its value very fast (60% over 2 years).

 I bought a 2013 fiesta in Jan 2013.

Automatic transmission.

Within 2 weeks the grinding noises began and had clutch replaced.

The grinding noises are starting again.

 Had my 2015 Feista for 7 months and very impressed. Looks small but once you get in its bigger then you think.  Also was amazed at the power it had going from ramp to highway. Inside was designed with good taste and style. Why pay so much more for a bigger car when you are paying for empty space. Now I know why Europe has so many smaller cars.......there smart. The only item that I notice is that around town we get 25 MPG.

 I like my car. Its my first new car. It's quiet and stable on the interstate, I travel between Nashville and Memphis regularly about 3hrs each way going 78mph. The car stays at about 37mpg mixed driving and 40mpg hwy. I appreciate the stone/tan interior which has nice texture and design (not even comparable to a Nissan Versa). Visibility is good and makes the car feel roomy upfront. I have basic Sync and it works well. I love playing Pandora and switching songs/stations hands free by voice. The sound system is great if you know how to adjust it. The hatchback is the way to go when it comes to style, function, and long term value. The engine sounds strong when pushed and I think it has gusto for such a little engine. Fejita Fiesta serves her purpose in style, performance and functionality but I'm not sure about her long term quality and reliability.  

Negatives: 

The original tires only lasted 30k miles. Check the reviews online, they are horrible.

The paint is very thin. If you get one used check the top of the rear spoiler at the seam, you can see bare metal. Also, check the seams around the hood for the same reason. Paint was corroding on the underside of my hood and Ford repainted it under warranty. (I checked, while waiting for an oil change, a used fiesta on the lot that was white and the bare metal was clearly visable.)

 This car is almost a good family car being a hatchback....put for pure joy of driving it is a 4 1/2 star ... Small fast great steering FUN in town and great in the mountains...for what you pay this thing ROCKS

 Moral of the story - It only takes a bit of force in the front end of this car to total it, but it is a fantastic car before that! 

Just look at the crash test scores for the 2015 compared to the 2014 (didn't require the more in depth tests) on cars.com: "Front, Restraints and dummy kinematics - Poor," "Front, Structure and safety cage - Marginal," "Front, Overall evaluation - Marginal." If that doesn't scare you, then best of luck to you and may you never get in an accident because once you do your car is as good as totaled! Ford should focus on durability because the rest of what they did with this car was great.

What I loved about my fiesta: Great handling, Smooth acceleration, Little road noise, Fantastic suspension, Nice entertainment system, Good vehicle feedback (tire sensors etc.), Amazing fuel economy (33-37 year round), and I am very sad to see the car go over such a minor incident! If you love yours be super careful with it!

 I traded my 2006 focus for the Fiesta. I love it! I want to drive all day long.

 Love the car does great on gas handles great and looks great.

 Didn't know if we would like the touch screen radio but after getting use to it it's great  we had a 2013 fiesta with the auto trans I didn't care for... but I liked the car other than that. so we traded it for a 2014 with 5 speed wow what a car that made all the difference ......the car is fun to drive handles like on rails looks great and has the feel of a much higher priced car and as a major plus gets 35 mph :) :) :)

I wish fiesta st wheels was available on the other model fiestas as well.

 This is a commuter car for my girlfriend, we leased it for her to take to school and for us to use for road trips.The best thing about this car that we can agree on is the gas mileage which right now is at 31.2 and the sporty-ness of the car itself. Its very fun to drive even though I don't tend to drive it as much as she does. The biggest downfall to this car is the "quirky" transmission or so its called in reviews. I had one of the scariest moments when I was driving it through an intersection pressing down on the gas ,maybe a little hard but nothing my own car couldn't handle , and the car just would not accelerate pass 10mph. My car has never done that and I find it quite dangerous. 

Ambient lighting Great gas mileage Comfortable seats Decent trunk space for a little car Sports Mode

 I had this for two months  and love it.  It feels  comfortable  driving  it.  Love  the rims love the seats. The inside  front big.  Love the grill and color  

Mirrors. Rims. Lights. Steering  wheel 

Better  look exterior.  GPS. More inside  backseat  space.  Better  speakers 

so far, I am disappointed with the fuel 

economy (5 speed manual). Much of our 

driving is rural and we are seeing 

generally slightly less than 30mpg. We 

 I had a 2007 Focus SE Hatchback and just purchased a 2016 Focus SE Hatchback two weeks ago. I really liked the first one, but this one is an entirely different animal. Ford kept the best of the previous models and managed to add a whole collection of improvements. I opted for the Stick Shift with the SE Luxury Package- -Rear Disc Brakes, Leather, Fog Lamps, LED Running Lights, 17" alloys and upgraded stereo system. Handling for the Focus has always been a hallmark of the model, but Ford managed to improve it. After driving it nearly 1200 miles, all I can say is WOW! What a difference 9 years made in the level of refinement. Quieter, more powerful, awesome handling and shifting, and lots of nifty features like Traction Control, Hill Assist and a Back up Camera. It's like Ford actually got in my head when I was driving the last car and got the wish list of items I had for that vehicle and added them for my next purchase. I will say that Stick Shift Models are somewhat hard to find - My dealership rep took 3 weeks to get one in with the specs that I provided him with. Cons: Tight back seat, Tall gearing in Final drive.

 5 months in and 3 trips to the shop later. Got a call today saying one of the clutches for the dual clutch automatic transmission needs to be replaced. Such a disappointment for car that is only 5 months old. The transmission jerks like crazy, shifts are hard and loud. Really disappointed because the engine in this baby is full of life and gas mileage is great! Traded in an 01 Nissan Maxima with no problems to be left stranded while my new car gets repaired. Next time do your research before you make a big purchase.

 I'd previously owned two 2003 Focus hatchbacks with automatic transmissions that my sons drove.

I'd always been impressed with their quick acceleration and solid handling.  After reading 

reviews on this generation, I purchased a well-equipped model, but with the manual transmission

 After my Escort ZX2 died (after 13 years) I needed a new car. After test driving several, this little wagon perked my interest. I bought it used with 86,000 miles on it in August of 2012, and since, (april 2013) have put over 20,000 miles on it. I average about 33 mpg. about 28 city, 32 against the wind, and 40 with the wind. Since I travel a lot, its great to have the cargo space and the excellent gas mileage. And when I'm home, I can haul my three kids all over the place and everyone is confortable, even with one still in a booster seat. My only downside on this very particular vehicle is that I do not have cruise control. Otherwise, its a great car. 

 I bought this car in Mau 2015 with 91k on it. I never had any issues really. Changed plugs in 10 minutes, the alternator went out, but with miles was expected. The strut mounts are squeeking, but not a safety issue. All around a decent car to have. I will have this car til it dies completely. This is my first Ford and I was skeptical. Impressive small car and great.

 Good car bought with 44k on it. It's fun to drive but i wish it had more power& the clutch was a bit more aggressive ,if you have your rpm's up when you shift into 2nd,you have to drop them down before it will reengage. First thing i had to do is replace the lock cylinder.

The car has91k on it & i have replaced the front struts right side was different than

left,right side was bad. Left wheel bearing was replaced as well with the front breaks .

 Purchased a 2016 Focus SE w/Sport Appearance package as a daily driver.  Mix of city/expressway driving.  IMO the Sport appearance package is the best bang for the buck.  You get a ton of features with it including: rear disc brakes, upgraded rear bumper, painted lower trim, fog lights, upgraded front honeycomb trim, paddle shifters, leather steering wheel, leather shifter, and 17" upgraded wheels and tires.  All that for about a grand more.  I will admit the "leather" on the steering wheel is nothing to write home about, but it is better than the standard wheel on the S.  I liked the Mazda 3, but given the discounts and incentives combined with the better priced packages the Focus came out much much cheaper.  Mazda's appearance package for example is 1750 and if you get it on the i-Sport you have to add an additional package further increasing the costs.  MSRP on iSport and iTouring (how I would equip) were 1500 and 2500 higher respectively.  Fuel economy has increased after break-in to about 33 combined.  It won't win any races but the engine is smooth and has enough power for passing.  I find the electronic steering very good, I never feel any vagueness or sluggishness.  It's very direct and dialed in well.  Prior years have had problems with the powershift dual clutch trans.  So far I've not had any issues, but I've been driving dual clutch trans since 2007.  There are certain quirks about them that aren't seen in a conventional auto with a torque converter.  I may end up buying the extended warranty depending on how others fair with the trans.  I plan on keeping this car a long time.  I love the multi-function display and it's many options.  It has a display with info on several catagories or you can focus in on one catagory such as a digital speedometer.  The eco stuff is kind of goofy and seems pointless.  I've already achieved "Eco Champion" even though I have no idea how I did it.  I don't drive with economy in mind.  I did have the display freeze on me one time during a 40 mile trip.  I attempted to switch from Trip 1 to Trip 2 and it hung up with a blank blue background with miles and gears displayed.  The miles were stuck and did not go up.  Once I got to my destination the screen stayed on with the key out of the ignition.  Eventually it went out and came back to normal once I restarted the car.  The miles did jump up to the expected amount.  Has not happened since, so hopefully it was a fluke.  Steering wheel controls are plentiful and work well.  Bluetooth audio streaming works well and picks up quick.  I prefer paddle shifters to the +/- on the gear shifter.  Back seat is a little tight in the leg room department, but I will rarely have anyone back there.  Little touches like dual USB, hinged 12v power cover, coin slot, arm rest tray, and a plethora of cubbies are very nice.  Has the three blinks option when using the turn signal which I prefer.  It may seem kind of cheesy but I like the wipers.  They aren't normal in their sweep, they kind of come out of the middle.  I would call it euro-style.  This also means you don't get the half moon missed spot in the middle since they fold back into that spot.  There's a couple of minor annoyances I've uncovered after owning it for a few months.  First is the top of the dashboard is not dull enough and reflects onto the windshield quite a bit in the mornings driving directly east.  Next is there is a slight dip in the dash where it meets the windshield (this is for the defroster).  Normally this wouldn't be any sort of issue but it causes a visual distortion due to the reflection change.  For example if you are driving along a road marked with a solid line to the right - you will notice the line will shift on the bottom inch or so of the windshield due to this.   Once you see this it WILL annoy you.  I had to point it out to a passenger and once they noticed it it bothered them too.  Last the key I have is not smart (that's a different package) I wish however that it at least folded or something.  It's a bit bulky and "old fashioned".  Audi/VW keys for example flip out like a switch blade and as such fit better in your pocket.  I am overall very happy with this purchase and would buy it again if I had a mulligan.

 It feels like a larger car when sliding along the highway absorbing bumps and breaks in the road. The leather seats and wonderful environment make you feel very comfortable no matter what is happening outside...get the Titanium. The voice activated GPS is amazing. It take only a few minutes to learn how to go places efficiently and safely. 

I sometimes wish the engine had more torque like my GTI. But the gas mileage improvement is well worth it. Just relax and get there safe and comfortably.

This car has maximum safety in mind. They thought of everything. The Ford engineers added every relevant safety feature to this package.

 I have had the car for not very long but I really enjoy it for the way it is. It drives smooth and as for the hatchback 4 doors; it's a great sporty.

 The car looks great inside and out.  It drives well and has very nice and quick acceleration.  So far, country and city, I am not experiencing the fuel mileage on the sticker.  Overall, I love my new Focus.

Huge trunk.  Fold down seats are a breeze.

Back seat mats the size of a postage stamp.  Always hate temporary spare tire versus real size.  Open non-locking gas tank disappointing.  Trunk is very sticky when using auto-open feature.

 It is very reliable. I bought my 2005 used from a car rental and I have had it for 10 years now. I have 134,000 miles on it and I don't see myself giving it up for a long time to come! I am short and the seat rises up to where your head basically touches the roof! My parents bought one a few years ago because they liked driving in mine and getting in and out was easy for them. I get 35 miles to the gallon even at 10 yrs. old! They aren't the most quiet cars but they are a good ride and dependable.

 I bought this focus so I could gift my 2005 Mercury Mariner to my wife to haul the kids around. It is my third focus and I have loved all of them. The worst part would be the cheap interior materials and the layout of the armrest and cup holders leaves a bit to be desired however.....the engine and 5 speed make those issues simply minor annoyances. Its a 2.3 and it feels faster than it is. It grips the road well and goes where you want it to. I know its boundaries like any car so I have a lot of fun driving it and its a cheap reliable car. I bought it with 119k miles over a year ago and I currently have 141k and the only problem I have had to change was the front brakes, rear wheel bearing, and the alternator. All these things are normal especially a car its age so I don't count those as faults. I would love to upgrade to the Focus ST or wait and get the RS but financially I will stick to my little silver bullet.

 Recently chose a Focus as my first new car (SE sedan w/ the 4-cylinder and a manual transmission) after having driven the Mazda3, Golf, Jetta, Elantra, Forte, Cruze, Civic, Corolla and Lancer.  Being a driving enthusiast (albeit on a serious budget) I found all but the Ford, Mazda 3 and the VW's to be pretty awful.  In the case of the Focus it is for all intents and purposes the same car that I recently drove in Portugal and feels very much like a small European sports sedan.  Steering is precise, handling is stellar for what it is, the interior is of high quality (with a bit of a playful, cockpit-like feel), the ride is taught and compliant, the 4-banger produces adequate power and and there's very little road noise compared to the competition.  The fact that I paid less than $13,000 (with incentives and rebates) for such an experience is well...pleasingly ridiculous every day.  That it came with nicer wheels and tires than the Mazda3 or Jetta (16" alloys with Continentals) and all the basic power and infotainment options including a backup camera, etc. just sweetened the deal.  Yes, the VW's are more refined and the Mazda is a bit more playful but for those that love to drive value-wise the Focus blows everything else out of the water.  I almost got the Jetta turbo but in the end was happy spending thousands less for a lot of fun while supporting American manufacturing (the Focus is built in Michigan) versus a company that knowingly poisoned the planet and deceived millions of consumers.  Yes I was aware of the reliability issues surrounding the dual-clutch transmission and although I understand things have gotten better, I dealt with my concerns by getting the manual I wanted anyway.  My only serious gripes about the car is that I would love a center armrest that extends like the VW's and the backseat couldn't possibly be any tighter and miserable than it is.  Overall though I couldn't be happier with my purchase and highly recommend the Focus to anyone who loves to drive but doesn't have the funds to spring for a GTI, WRX or ST.

 Yes, I am still driving my Ford Focus and I am still loving it!! I have around 13,000 miles on it now and have had no issues with it mechanically. It is so comfortable and rides so nice plus the electronics make for a fun trip.  Love it!!!

 Traded a 2016 Mazda CX-5 Gran Touring in for the Focus. Mazda was a POS! Too many problems that dealer couldn't find anything wrong. Anyways...the Focus is a great little car. Rides smooth, quite and gets great gas mileage. I'm getting 33.9 MPG. I drive about 75 miles to and from work each day and I like the savings on gas. Now for the bad. Not much storage up front. The cubby hole in front of the shifter is useless. It's so small I can't use it. The console storage is also small. Both need to bigger. Inside the cup holders there are these rubber things to help hold cups in place. They are very troublesome because they hold your cup too tight and when I reach for my drink, I often pull the top off and spill it. But I will cut them out with a razor blade. No self dimming rear view mirror. Lately the car shutters when accelerating from a slow roll or stopping from a slow roll. Will take to Ford to see what the problem is. Overall I'm pleased with the car. It's just a car and gets me from point A to point B. That's all I need.

 I traded in a 2013 Prius C for a 2016 Ford Focus Hatchback.  I am very happy with the Focus.  The Focus is slightly longer and wider than the Prius C.  The materials used in the Focus interior are a higher quality than the materials used in the Prius C.  The Focus is more comfortable, quieter and has more pep than the Prius C.  The Prius C had quite a bit of road noise while driving, making it hard, at times, to listen to music or be on the phone.  There are two things I miss about the Prius C:  1) the wonderful gas mileage (52 mpg) and 2) the hands-free entry (I never had to pull my key out, the door unlocked automatically when I approached the car).  I am still getting used to having to unlock the Focus with the key fob.  (Such a minor inconvenience, however I REALLY liked the push-button start in the Prius and the auto-unlock, making getting in and out of the car hands-free.)  Another Focus plus: the seat warmer in the Focus has 3 temperatures where the Prius C only had 1 (and the heat seemed to toggle on and off).  Also, the Focus has a heated steering wheel, which comes with the All-Weather package.  Again, something I never thought I wanted!  Now that I have it, I love it.  Perfect for Michigan winters.  All in all, the Focus is a superior car to the Prius C, with high quality materials and a solid, stable, peppy feel behind the wheel.  It is excellent quality for the price.  I highly recommend the 2016 Ford Focus Hatchback.

 No more off-line hesitancy or stuttering from the automatic transmissions of these new Focuses.  Ford FINALLY fixed that multi-year problem for good.  The new one here is silky-smooth.  Of course the rest of the car was already competitive, and a great value during rebate time.  Watch for aggressive small-car promotions from Ford to maintain their corporate average fuel economy in light of their booming truck and SUV sales.  They're GIVING away Focuses and Fiestas.

 Im in college. I was gifted this car. It was the bare bones model. It had an engine and tranny with the stock radio. The manual windows and locks were annoying but they worked. I replaced the radio and drove from 88K to 120K until i was rear ended and totaled. It gave me 0 mechanical problems. It ran and had A/C. It was great. It looked like shit(due to previous owner) but it got me everywhere with no problems. It was loud when going 80 on the turnpike but I didnt care. I had a radio to listen to. My passengers dealt with the the rear seats so I cant vouch for them. Comfortable, fun, great steering, great brakes, good mpg, good on tires.

Would buy again

 I named her Fifi. It's short for Felicia Ford Focus. For a car that I am so often complimenting, she needed a name. Pushing 77000 miles and my only only problem EVER was an air bag light that came on and was fixed under warranty. I've gone through a couple sets of tires though. It's a respectable looking car but nothing exciting. It's a little louder than some other cars out there, but nothing unbearable. It's got some serious pep and corners amazingly. Took a 1200 mile trip this past may, cruise set at 90-95, A/C on full blast and pretty much everything I own in the back seat and trunk, I still got close to 29mpg. It may not seem great, but I was sure impressed. Great Auto Trans.

Map pocket holds a pharmacy (full size bottle of hand sanitizer, lotion, tums, excedrin, gift cards, bottle of water...all at the same time). Great power for a small car, speed compensated radio volume. Spoiler. A/C is ice cold. Reliability. Wipers do an extra sweep to catch the drip a few seconds after you use the washer fluid. Steering wheel audio controls. Winter-weather performance. Leather-wrapped steering wheel. Automatic Transmission.

Some interior bits are cheap and rattle a lot. Cabin noise is rather pronounced. Center Armrest is strange. Great to have but not the best or most stylish. 

 I bought this car used in December 2007 at approx. 32k miles and traded it in today at 72k miles.

I found this car to be very reliable for the 7 years I had it.

I had no major repairs performed over that time, only small wear and tear repairs. 

 I have owned 3 Mustangs in the past and this one is my favorite. The 5.0 is bullet-proof and with only Flowmasters and a K&N air filter, it rocks. What a beautiful sound the exhaust system gives. I love it. No problems at 123,000 miles. I keep up the oil and filter changes at 3000 miles and drive it maintenance free. It is a fun car. Take it from a 4 time BMW owner.

Power, lack of maintenance, fun to drive.

Give me a cup holder which is functional.

 I bought my 95 GT in 1998 for $15k with 17K miles on it. Regular maintenance at 3K miles with only mobil1 synthetic oil.

It now has 127K miles and after 14 yrs it needed the auto trans rebuilt.

 I drove by an dealership & saw this black mustang that caught my eye. I asked to see it, the guys started it and i fell in love! The rumble beats a Harley & I can drive a car! lol This was my 15 yr daughter's dream car and I had no idea until I heard that rumble there is no sweeter sound. She is fast and furious and is a great car. I had male friends want to race etc at my age lol so i got chrome that says "size matters" and put it under the GT 4.6LT on the side it looks like it was made that way and in the back window reads in vinyl "STEP ASIDE BOYS" This has been fun! Like no other car I have had! worried about the snow, heard they are bad in snow! This is a must have car! It's awesome!

THE RUMBLE  and the leather seats

Cup holder and wider factory tires

 I'm 63 yrs young and I've had a lot of different cars in my life. My last car got totaled so I went looking for a muscle car. I'm tired of 4s and 6s. I loked around for about 2 months. I found my perfect car, a 1998 mustang gt convertible. I've had it for about 9 months, and had a blast in it. It had 120,000 miles on it, and I haven't had a bit of trouble with it. All my old friends ask me about gas mileage, I tell them I could care less. I give them a ride in it with the top down and they want to buy one. Of course they have to glue their tupee's on a little better. I have trouble judging distances on parking so this is a great fit for me. I will have no other car than a mustang!!

Leather seats, handling, peppy v8

 Great car...had mine for 6 years, bought it when it had a little over 100k needless to say i added another 150 k on it. Engine is extremely reliable as long as you maintain regular oil changes. 

Only bad side of this car is weather!!! be very careful in the rain and snow, do not drive over 30 miles an hour in the rain and park it when it snows. 

 I bought my GT with 95k, it currently has 160k and the engine is running strong. Not been as reliable as many here claim. 

I only see the recall intake manifold mentioned once! That was a pain in the butt to replace. It hasn't been all that bad, just little annoying stuff going wrong here and there, for example.....x4 O2 sensors, all 4 calipers and rotors replaced, new intake manifold(coolant leak), door hinge, cruise control went out, lower control arms, ball joints, and recently the steering column.

Like i said not all that bad, but people on here are praising it as being soooo reliable, it is a 3 at best as far as build quality reliablitly people!

 This mustang still has not given me any problems since I bought it. Even at 14 years old. I expected it to have give me at least some problems.

The guy i bought it from already put 3:73 gears on it.

Fuel economy and a better location for the cup holder.

 I have a 96 Mustang Convertible with 311+K on the Body. Engine Has around 100k. I average 20 City and 30 MPG Freeway even if I'm driving Fast. Turning radius on these year stangs 94- 04 is horrific. Winter Driving takes a skilled driver. Always starts for me. 

Easy to put down top. Ashtray in center/with cover. Side scoops that actually let air through. Good Looks. Hi way driving is pleasurable. 

 I have the opportunity to buy a 94 stang for 1400 with 130000is this a smart idea for me to do? it works great, the person bought a new stang so is why offering this one. one owner. it is red with the racing stripes and a spoiler 

 A real head-turner.  8 years old and no problems. Excellent paint and soft top.

Leather seats are comfortable.  Very quick.  Mach 460 sound system is a blast.

 I have had very good luck with mine with the exception of the head gasket. Car gets very good gas mileage for a V6, although it is not very powerful in return.

Looks, gas mileage (30 on the highway), has been very reliable (193,000 miles and still going).

 I bought this car 3 yrs ago with 172k 

on it. Now it has 230k and driven 

dayly. Does not burn a drop of oil. I 

did the standard 3.8L head gasket 

replacement (valve job) 20k ago and has 

 Mustang is a great car to work on. Upgrading performance is easy and very inexpensive. Eibach 2" lowering springs made it able to handle any turn at 60 miles per hour, for only $375 installed.  The sound on these mustangs are unmistakeable, with a cheap 2 chamber flow master exhaust.  Free up the ponies and let them ride. Its a sin to have a stock Mustang GT.  Better all around compared to my 2002 Mercedes c230 kompressor.  Wish I still had the Mustang.

Performance.

None.  For the price range.

 Almost 7 years & over 142,000 miles 

later, I have no regrets.  

 i have owned a 99 mustang before this i got hit it was totaled so i bought the 95 5.0 and this is a beauty although id like it to have a little more horsepower than 215 i can't complain because just having the 5.0 makes a big difference than a 4.6 in it handles ok i would like to see it handle better but it's a great ride and i will always have it until the doors fall off then ill fix it and keep it rolling when i bought it it had 87k miles i've put a lot on since i had it now it has 112 which is still very low i did just have a major service done to it and it's in flawless condition its my baby and i absolutely love it

i love everything about this car i even like the non flowmaster exhaust kit it comes with because all the exhaust kits now just make the car ridiculously loud which is cool but way overdoing it

better handling little better fuel economy and MORE HORSEPOWER i will be upgrading mine though to add power right now its bone stock with bullit rims because we all know the stock rims are ugly.

 I bought my Gt Conv brand new in 1994 

and it has been my daily driver since. 

 I have loved and owned Mustangs all my life. I have had a 97 and 96 GT convertible. Out of all the cars I have driven these were overall very good automobiles. Yes they are going to have a few problems. They seem to not have very good radiators because they tend to overheat some.  Other than that Mustangs have overall been pretty good.  Most that have problems with them is because the previous owner has mistreated the car; they are mostly well built cars

Tight compact interior .

Wish they could make a nice fuel efficient v8 that has just as much power cause this baby eats gas!

 Finally, finally we have a Mustang -- the car we always wanted. Bought used in almost perfect condition in and out. Drives sweet, looks fast.  Wish there was a little more power in the standard but that is what the GT model is for. New to a convertible but lovin' it. Stereo sounds awesome, came with stock tape radio but put 240 watt Pioneer cd deck in and no need to say more. Mustangs hold their value and are reliable and are just a fun ride.

Model design, stereo, dash, electric convertible top, handling, bucket seats.

 Own V6 5spd for 6+ years and drive it daily.  I am over 40 and have driven a wide variety of company vehicles.  I've only owned GMs and Fords, with models years dating from 1970 to 2003.  This has been the most reliable car I've ever owned. The only thing that broke (excluding normal maintenance stuff) during the first 120k was the power seat switch.  After 120K, I started having lots of problems with the rear. But engine, electronics, AC, interior are still good.  In snow: HORRIBLE wheel spin. Gets stuck very easily and can't climb inclines most cars handle with ease. But steering and braking control is ok for this type of car.

I love the shape and proportions.  Old school Fords like Mustang, Crown Vic and Econoline have good reliability and affordable repair costs.  V6 is a good value used - if it wasn't a rental or abused by a teen.  Lots of aftermarket doodads available. 

Shifter too far forward for max comfort.  Gearing could be a little lower.  The one flimsy cup holder is in the way of the gear shift and hand brake.  Poor quality leather on seats, but fabric ones are decent quality.

 This car has been so wonderful to drive. I bought the car with 34k miles. It now has over 120k and still runs great. The only major expense has been to replace the top.  I would recommend this car to anyone.

Convertible top ease of operation.

 I have always wanted a mustang as long as I could remember. Of course I live in a Ford only house which is great. After wanting a mustang for so long and searching forever to find one this one feel into my lap( it was ment to be). Although it needed a new head gasket and a new paint job and some minor things done to it I can't complain for the $800 I stanged this car at. I have enjoyed it to the max. Other than some repair I had to do to get it going when I first bought it , I have had no problems so far. It is not only a dream car but a great fun car. The engine runs smooth and has a great get up and go. I can say this much I will five this car until it just falls apart. 

All of them

Bigger back seat!

 I've had this car for about a year now and I absolutely love it. It is my first car but the driving is excelent. You can feel the road when you're driving and it still has creature comforts. It is a great starter car but I would recomend putting an aftermarket exhaust on it and/or a cold air intake just to boost the horsepower a little bit. Great car.

Great air conditioner, very good steering response, great brakes, nice exhaust note

 Brand new car.  No initial purchase issues and not driven long enough to have reliability or service issues.  This is more a first impression that a long term ownership review.

The Focus ST is a niche car.  It is aimed (noticed how I didn't say focused  ;-)   ) at someone who wants a fun and exciting car that is also practical and affordable.  I don't believe everything I read, especially in advertising, but this car delivers.  I am surprised at how well it delivers.  The acceleration is quick, the steering is quick, and the braking is quick.  There are 5 other cars and a pickup in my driveway, but there is only one car you would chose if you said to yourself "I just feel like going out for a drive".   There is great power delivery even down low and when the turbo kicks in you feel it push you back in the seat.  Gearbox is smooth.  You can row back and forth through the six gears if you want, but the powerband is broad enough that downshifts are not nearly as necessary as some manuals I have owned.  The tires and suspension let you feel all the road imperfections, but it is not harsh and handling always feels connected instead of busy or mushy.  Torque steer?  It is there if you push it in first or second.  Not hard to control, but can be surprising when the car decides it doesn't want to accelerate in a straight line like you expected.  Overall the car is reasonably quiet.  You do hear the  engine 'power symposer' when you accelerate, but not even loud enough to drown out a normal conversation.  I have yet to hear the turbo whistle at all.  Didn't get the Recaro seats.  The base seats fit me much better.  My ST1 has the base Ford Sync, so I can't comment on Sync 3, either.   Although this is my daily driver, in no way is it just an average commuter car.  It is for people who enjoy cars and want something that involves them in driving.  Choosing an ST is a personal statement. I think it is a mistake by Ford to offer it only in the ST1/2/3 packages.  I would have liked to pick and chose exactly which options fit me.  A marketing decision I am sure.   

I don't challenge Mustangs, Camaros and Chargers at the stop lights.  I don't wait to ambush BMW's and Vettes on twisty roads.  I don't look for 2 miles of straight road where I can wind it out (but I do admit, on ramps have become lots of fun all of a sudden).  There are bigger cars and faster cars and smoother cars and easier cars to drive.  My ST is an every day driver that puts a smile on my face.  It knew it was what I wanted as soon as I drove it.

 This is not your father's daily driver. I was looking for a replacement hatchback for my beloved 2002 Honda Si (251,000mi). I had recently rented a 2015 Focus sedan and was surprisingly impressed by it's "big car" characteristics. I have never owned a Ford automobile. Since Honda didn't have a replacement Si available I went to test drive a basic 5spd Focus hatchback. Looking around the lot I was impressed from the window view of the ST interior. I had not researched that car and didn't know what I was in for after asking for a test drive. Not surprisingly, the salesman offered no resistance...

I bought it the first time I shifted into 3rd gear carrying some revs. I won't soon forget the experience of that turbo propelled acceleration. The overwhelming harmony of the power, steering and symphony of engine and exhaust notes was instantly addictive. It was the Si I had always dreamed of and much, much more. The fit and finish of the interior is excellent, very easy on the eyes and full of discovery. I'm 6'1", 210lbs and find the seats fit like a glove. They are comfortable and meaningful when you accelerate into a curve and pleasant while waiting for the green.

 435hp with a 6sp manual transmission! Easily outguns the competition when you punch the gas but is a quiet, comfortable cruiser on the highway. I average 27-28MPG on the highway. Average tank gets me 330-350 miles. LOVE LOVE LOVE this car! Interior feels upscale. I am willing to bet that if you drive this car.. you will like this car! Go USA!!!!!

***update*** 2/13/2017 - This car is fantastic! Gas mileage still holds true, actually improved since the engine broke in. Now getting about 30MPG on the highway. SYNC-3 works great! No dropped calls. Sound quality is very good. Only modification I made was I added a MBRP cat-back exhaust. Love the American Muscle growl that it makes. Now, I find myself driving in the winter with the windows down to hear that exhaust note. I still LOVE this car! It turns a lot of heads. Every mile...all smile :)

 After coming from a basic, 2013 Camaro v6 manual. My Mustang is so much better in so many ways, I can actually see out of the Mustang! I have the base gt with performance pack, so comparing the performance of the two cars isn't really fair. Although comfort, interior quality, and technology is much better! I also find the 6 speed manual on the gt to be very smooth shifting. The only negatives I have found with the car, is that the exterior panel alignment could be better, gas mileage is sub par, but hey it is a v8! Also the back seat is not very comfortable to anyone over 5'1 due to the fastback design. I love what the base gt comes with although my word of advice if you are not going to upgrade the sound system, is to go ahead and step up the shaker system. The base 6 speaker audio is severely lacking. In fact it is dissapionting for a $32,000 car to have such a crappy system! There is no bass response and if you turn the radio up to 20 the music will sound like a muddy mess! Although I have never kept factory audio systems long, I find this one to be the worst system I have experienced, but I am currently in the process of upgrading it. Overall I love the car! It's is a beautiful body style, and drives amazing! It is very confident in corners, and the 6 speed manual is a thrill the throws are crisp. Clutch pedal travel is a little long, but it doesn't fatigue you in traffic. In my book this car gets a solid 4.5 stars!!

 First of all, I would prefer a Mustang in a V6 Premium Package, which is not available. That said, the EcoBoost 4 cylinder motor performs much better than I thought it would. It has gobs of power and is very economical. During a two day rental for the purpose of taking an extended test drive, we got excellent gas mileage. The handling is superb. The Shaker sound system and the other electronic goodies are very nice. The big turn off for us was the level of road noise. I felt this may have been related to the tires installed on the car, but we would not purchase any car with this level of road noise. If I was positive this could be mitigated by changing the tires, I might feel differently, but we were not willing to make an investment this large on an unknown. We loved the looks and handling, but hated the noise level.

 I had a 2010 Mustang GT I bought new, and was ready for a new car. Looked seriously at the highly rated Camaro SS, and also considered the Challenger RT. Really was in the mood for a change, instead of another Mustang GT. That said, found a great deal on a new 16 bright red GT, paying almost $9,000 less than I would have paid for the base Camaro SS. I know the SS is rated a little higher, is a little faster, etc, but for the price I paid, I am very pleased with the new GT. It has changed significantly from the 2010 model I traded in.... handles better, is quicker, looks cool, is much more planted on the road, and gets better gas mileage, even after adding 100 plus additional hp. For the price, I am very happy with the car. It's fun, looks great, drives great, and is way faster than I need to go!

 I have owned my 2016 GT Premium California Special convertible (Oxford White) for 6 months now and every day I just look forward to driving it...especially with the top down!  It has the 6 speed automatic with 3.55 LS Rear Axle, Nav, Adaptive Cruise Control, Reverse Sensing Safety system....well everything except the "Performance Package" which you can't get with the automatic transmission.   Acceleration is awesome!  Simply put, it looks GREAT, drives GREAT and sounds GREAT.  No problems or regrets so far...This is the first vehicle built by an "American" manufacturer that I have purchased since 1985!  Toyota and Honda (and a number of Mazda Mx-5s) have been and still are in my driveway, however I love this Mustang!  Funny story...I rented a 2016 Ford Expedition for a week and was soo impressed with the quality and performance of the big Ford, I had to go drive the new Pony Car!  Word of advice:  Don't test drive one if you don't want to own one!  This is a 1 year UPDATE to the original review of my Mustang GT/CS Premium Convertible.  Simply put, I love it as much as the day I bought it!  It is my recreational "sunny day" driver so most of the 6500 miles are top down at the beach or open country roads or Blue Ridge Parkway.  People still want to get a closer look at it or ask about it when I stop for gas or at a stop light!  It is everything I expected it to be...Looks GREAT, sounds awesome, handles like a sports car and takes off like a jet!  Top quality and no issues or concerns after a year and a half.  GREAT CAR!!

 Love my Mustang Ecoboost Convertible!  Power and acceleration is probably good for most people.  But I wanted a bit more power for hills I drive.  I was able to make some easy modifications to improve power.  Next step is upgraded turbo.  Looks great, good visibility for a sports car and I find the convertible very enjoyable.  Car driver's car.

 I recently purchased a v6 with the 051A package which is a must. You get the beautiful 18 inch  5 star wheels and 6 way power drivers seat. The car has great acceleration and very good steering feel. The ride is very good and the seat is comfortable. The car gets compliments everywhere I go especially when at the gas pumps.

 So after purchasing a 2016 Mustang GT, the paint on horozontal surfaces was found to have numerous defects resulting from an unknown source and was reported to the dealer within several days of the purchase.  Two months into ownership Ford has taken the position the paint is not covered and has rejected the dealer's warranty repair plan.  This vehicle has only 400 miles on it and Ford is playing this game.

Needless to say, having purchased approximately 18 new vehicles in the past 20 years, Ford can now forget about getting any more business from me and my family.  

 Got the GT with performance package and manual gearbox in Deep Blue with Black interior, all options for under $40K. What a car!  Great build quality. Performance is very strong. Drives better than any Mustang I've ever had of 2 others and even my porsche and AMG Mercedes. The new Sync entertainment system is easy and intuitive. Fast and fun. No buyers remorse whatsoever. And, the GT350 just beat a $350K Ferrari for Performance Car of the Year from Road and Track. Get one with 6 spd manual and you will not be disappointed. Smaller kids fit in the back and have lots of fun. Good trunk space. Way to go Ford. Great to see the USA building a truly world class car.

 I owned 4 mustangs over the last 10 yrs  but this 2016 ecoboost is by far the best. I'm very impressed with the performance and the new look is impressive.  Considering that is a 4 cyl with 310hp the ride comfort and acceleration is amazing.

 I'm a little bit biased here since I am a FORD employee. I love this car! I have wanted to have either a Camaro or Mustang since I was a teenager just starting to drive. Now I finally have one! The dealer I worked with was fantastic. I told the sales person that contacted me what model I wanted and the colors I was interested in and in a couple of hours they sent me window stickers  of several cars that meet my wants. I picked the one that most appealed to me, since it was at another dealer my dealer had to make a swap to get the one I wanted. My wife drives a Camaro and the one thing I really like about my Mustang is that I have more head room in it than the Camaro. The Mustang also has a better visibility than the Camaro. I have the ecoboost model and love it. It has the perfect blend of performance and gas mileage. I drive 70+ miles a day and usually drive at about 80 Mph and I have gotten as high as 30 Mpg the average is usually about 28 Mpg. I would highly recommend this car to any one that wants a sporty car. It's fun to drive and well worth the money

 Fit finish are great.  Features are impressive, especially the telemetry and endless things to monitor on the dash.  Back up camera is awesome...and this is the lower end one.  The v6 has power to spare and the ride is awesome. The wife loves the adjustable steering response.  The Bluetooth has been a pain but it works.  It would be nice if the delivery of the vehicle included a checklist of features on the vehicle...there seems go be a lot of confusion as to what we do and don't have installed.  Also, moving the seats is clunky, folding them to get access to the back seats is clumsy.  Overall, this is a very cool car!

 OK just a quick update from my previous review:

 This is the base v6 convertible. Only option is the 6 speed auto. All the positives in the reviews are spot-on. This car is sensational! The negatives I've read don't even apply (at least to me). My 6,1" son has sat in the back - with the driver's seat in normal position (I am 6'). He said he wouldn't want to sit there all day, but even a couple hours would be fine. That was a surprise - I thought the back seat was just for the insurance companies. I have only 1,000 miles on the car (had it for 2 wks) - and got 30 mpg on a 90 minute trip the other day. And that included an - ahem - acceleration test on the highway. A blast to drive, and that's with the top up. Top down - fantastic!

Styling is near perfection.  Performance is near-perfection.  Ride quality and handling amazing.  Major, major kudos to Ford for this terrific car - and the price is unbelievable.

Would like the seat backs to return to previous position when you've had to let someone into the back seat.  Would like gear indicator (auto) on dash.  How's that for nit-picky?

 Loaded (all I didn't get was the glass roof, HID headlights, and gaudy louvers and scoops) with a 3.55 rear diff, I've had this car for just over a year and no complaints. I've never had a "fast car" let alone muscle car before so, performance wise, it's like I'm driving a superhero (well mannered, but capable of things that put - and leave - a smile on your face that stays all day). I've heard a lot of talk on the tranny, but I've had no problems at 6500mi (2nd car and don't drive a lot). Took a pro-driving class and was amazed. She cornered as if on rails as they say. Rated at 16/25mpg City/Hwy, I see 14/22 in WA which puts additives in the gas.

Performance is great, but I cannot get over the gadgets! SYNC lets you do nearly everything by voice command (remembering all possible commands is the hard part). Love that my car has a 10Gb HDD, plays DVDs, music on my phone, and lets me control my iPod completely from the car's touch screen. How did we live before heated seats? And backup cameras!? When I get down to 50mi left in the tank, a soft tone sounds and my map displays all the nearby gas stations. Both HD and satellite radios are too much to listen to (but will be great on road trips). Oh, almost forgot, looks of both fear and envy from other drivers...priceless.

 I'm a hard core Chevy guy and have been waiting for the right time to buy a new Camaro. I've driven both the V6 and the V8 Camaro but something left me wanting and all the used Camaros on the dealer lots worried me.  Out of curiosity I test drove the Mustang 2011 V6 and the current GT.  The GT won hands down, it was pure love at first sight.  The interior design was fantastic, the gadgets are cool, it's easier to drive and it's just an all out blast to drive.

Wow, the body lines are wonderful, interior is nicely done, nothing "cheap" about it.  Stereo is great and the interior lights that can be color customized are too cool.  The exhaust note is really sweet.

No suggestions yet.  

 It's motor (4.6) is smaller than dads old 289 cu in. with the 2 bbl carburetor.

And it's an electric 

 I've put 86,000 miles on her as of today. Ive taken her all over the US! I bought her new. I still have warranty that I have not used once.

Whoever said it drives like a toyota probably never drove one! My grandma has a camery, trust me this car at over 200hp has great acceleration! It handles like my mom's '10 M3. I'm impressed

by the reliability and performance of this car. Such a good investment. 

Nothing, couldn't be happier!

 I've owned German and Japanese cars until last week.

This is my first American car, and so far I LOVE IT.

I LOVE the look of this car, as it looks like a throwback to the 60 - 70's designs, and doesn't resemble the Mustangs of the 80, 90's, or early 2000's at all.

This is definately NOT the car I remember guys driving around in high school.

The performance out of the 3.6L V6 is stronger than my Audi 2.7T A6, Acura RL, and BMW 328i.

 Picked up my Kona Blue '12 Mustang a month ago. My car is a base unit with the only options being the sport appearance package and the backup sensor/security package, both of which I highly recommend getting.

The V6 is smooth and has good power, although low end torque is nonexistent. The manual trans is mediocre. Clutching is effortless and easy to modulate, but 1-2 shifts can be tricky and I've missed a couple during aggressive acceleration. My car grinds and clunks sometimes during even lazy 1-2 shifts. dealer says it's normal, along with a bunch of other clunks and whines this trans makes. I hope it holds together for a long time, as this is my 10th and definitely best Mustang for sure!

Engine, clutch feel, GREAT BRAKES (from the 2010 GT), comfy seats, base radio is really good, electric steering and suspension are euro-taut and precise, Lincoln-like highway ride, 20 mpg in mixed (spirited) driving, looks great, I can see people in my rear view mirror pointing at the sequential turn signals while I wait at lights, true dual stainless exhaust even on the lil' V6 and sounds great, base aluminum rims are attractive and wrapped in quality BFG Radial T/A rubber, cruise control works great, very high quality feel to the interior. 

Clunky, chunky, strange shifting noises on the Chinese-built manual trans, performance-robbing 2.73 rear gear ratio on most V6s (I'll be changing this to a 3.55 soon, forget the warranty), fragile and easily scratched paint, armrests are awful and too low, if you have anything in the cup holders it's hard to shift the car, few places to store things inside, iPod aux jack is located inside the rear of the console and impossible to get to while driving, every time you load a kid into the back seat you have to totally reset the front seats, weak A/C (was low on Freon from day one, dealer would not fix, so I did) better now but still mediocre.

 Recently got a new 2012 V6 with the 6 speed automatic! Wow, this thing flies! We are quite impressed with the power! Fuel economy on the highway is great for such a fun car to drive, but city shows the "sports car"! This Stang turns on a dime and handles extremely well! LOVE the automatic up/down driver AND passenger windows! Anyone that calls this V6 a "mustake" can eat it! Any V6 Mustang that can do 0-60 in 5.5 seconds is a sports car, and definitely a MUSTANG! Especially when achieving 31 mpg on the highway. Ford did a great job with this Mustang! Have had and still have many in the family and this is by far the best! Only complaint for us is OUR FAULT! We got a black one, ALWAYS DIRTY! 

 This is a great car, with a huge potential flaw.

I, as well as others, have experienced a crucial flaw in the stability control system on some 2011 and 2012 Mustangs.

The stability control has a tendency on some vehicles to engage itself at around 50MPH for about 15-20 seconds.

During this time, the car cuts throttle, and engages the brakes - and can cause the car to buck, sway, and behave violently.

Ford has yet to acknowledge this issue or supply a fix.

 got the car from my grandmother and had it for a year and took it to a auto shop, they told me i needed inner and outer tie-rod ends cv boots a wheel bearing and struts...the struts were the only thing that shouldve been replaced at that time they said. the tranny felt like it would drop every time i shifted too. also had horrible gas mileage but no reasonable explanation

comfortable, just not while driving

longer lasting brake system, gas mileage

 Average of only 10000Km. Has 103000KM Replaced two back struts, radiator  fan, air conditioning compressor & clutch 1200.00), throttle body 1800.00), transmission(2885.00), ignition (240.00), radio (400.00), side molding on driver side seat 180.00), front end work (400.00). Never owned a vehicle that caused so much grief.

Handles well on corners. Solid feel.

 I bought this from a family member with 80,000 miles on it for $1,500.  Has been nothing but trouble.  I've spent much more than it's worth in repairs.

Comfy seats.

Wish it was more reliable.

 I got a great deal on mine since my brother is a car salesman. I paid $1000 for it with only 63,000 miles on it! Although the a/c never worked I love this car. Built like a tank. The only problems I experienced were an radiator leak, electrical issues and a hole in the exhaust (regular wear). I had mechanic friends so repairs were cheap for me. I recently fell victim to 2 accidents in 2 months. Both times I was hit by senior men who shouldn't be driving. My car now has significant cosmetic damage and will cost more than it's worth to fix so I'm trading it in for a '94 Taurus GL sedan ::tear tear:: I would buy it again if given the opportunity!

Radio controls on the dash, storage compartment in trunk, incredibly roomy and comfortable!

 I'm thrilled with the EcoStang.  Nice power / torque as delivered.  Have tuned the Mustang with the Cobb Accessport, and it's now even more fun.  The car rides / drives great for this segment.

 Only service problem was the Service 

4WD Problem as well.  New module fixed 

problem.  No other problems since.  I 

found the ride to be very comfortable 

especially for a 3/4 ton.  The room 

 We have a 2003 gmc that's been a 

nightmare.the horn keeps blowing 

fuses,won't start in park,no reverse 

fuel light doesn't work plus the gas 

gage stuck on and the thin plastic 

 Best pickup I have ever owned, plenty 

of power and is very comfortable

Duramax and Allison combo

Go to a solid front axle instead of IFS

 Don't want to spend to much time here, 

 This is my second GMC Sierra 2500HD in

the past two years, I love both of them.

I have the 6.0L Engine (the smallest 

engine that I believe they put in this

truck) in my truck and I have yet to 

 One of the best trucks I have owned. I have had no problems whatsoever. the biggest repair (only repair) was a universal joint. I tow a 5th wheel camper and am quite satisfied with the performance. Braking is smooth and sure in all conditions, the 4 wheel disk brakes still have a long way to go when checked at 80+k miles. I do my own maintenance and have crawled under and around this truck and I am impressed with it's sturdiness and build quality. It has what appears to be one of the most massive frames in any similar truck I've looked at. I like everyone else would like to see better fuel economy. I would like to see an easier to change fuel filter. Yes I will buy another GMC, probably in 0

Appearance width and stability, the antilock 4 wheel disk brakes, don't need a step ladder to get into the 4wd truck. A real truck with a solid frame. A great tow vehicle.

Fuel economy (All trucks) More accessable maitainence (fuel filters) and such. Don't make it look like a Japanese truck or Dodge. Teach the dealers to properly service diesel trucks.

 This has been an exceptional truck, 

plenty of power and quiet for a diesel. 

 I have a fleet of pickups.  I have 

Dodge, Ford, Chevrolet and GMC.  My 

General Motors vehicles are by far 

cheaper to maintain and operate of the 

fleet.  My people all want the General 

 I researched long and hard when 

deciding on the $$ for the 

Duramax/Allison combo.  Man am I 

pleased!  It pulls my travel trailer 

like it wasn't even there.  MPG has 

 I really love this truck. I call it "big truck". I don't like the gas mileage, aprox 13 mpg but what could I expect. It definilety has the pulling power, and the acceleration that I would want. I drove a couple of F-250's and I just didn't like the ride quality as much as I do this truck. I'm very happy with this truck

The top lights on the cap, it just suits the truck. It looks great at night with all the lights on. Overall apperance

Better mpgs, the ability to put better than a p285-75-16 on the truck with out having to lift it 

 I've owned this older Duramax SLT 4x4 truck for over a year now and it has been pretty good.  The only issues I've had with this truck that are not operator caused are I had a few bearings go out in the belt pullies, alternator bit the dust and the Hydroboost had to be replaced.  All of these I was able to do myself with minimal effort.  There were some other things that needed repair but those were not the truck's fault.  It IS an older truck.  Everything else seems to be fine.  The engine is strong and the Allison tranny works great.  I'm overall happy with the truck.  I just wish the cab was a bit more polished.  I bought the truck to pull and it does it well.

Follow up review.   The truck is still chugging along just fine.  I had a rear drive shaft seal where it goes into the diff, go bad.  Also, I forgot to change my fuel filter which caused the truck to perform a bit poorly however, after looking over the forums and remembering I needed to change it, the truck now drives good.  Other than that, it hasn't changed.  Things are good.  191k miles.

 Almost all 2015 Yukons/Denalis with AWD are having severe problems with the transmission.

Return to driver oriented dash boards.

 Took delivery in Germany (ED program - look into it!) and received it back in the US one month later.  What a fabulous car.  Whether driving at sane speeds (50-80 mph) or Autobahn speeds (150+ mph) the car is very predictable and gives excellent feedback.  Doesn't feel like a 4000+ lb car through the twisties.  SMG is a great system, once you get used to it.

Driver feedback, pure power, V10 sound, high revving engine, excellent big brakes, full leather interior, sound system is good (although I don't use it much - like to listen to the engine).

 What can I say, I'm in love with my car. I also have a 3 Series, but this, my friend, is top of the line. I wouldn't trade in this car for anything. I call her my baby! Yes, she's a girl. She's the best.

It's manual, I hate SMG. Fast as heck! Grabs attention wherever I go. It shows high status, high roller, and dude... it's an M5!!

 I owned a 2001 540i Sport 6 Spd and a 2003 M3 when I test drove a 2003 M5. I was instantly hooked. I searched and found one of the last remaining new 03s in CA. I have had the car for 3 yrs and it is the ultimate balance of performance, handling, comfort, reliability, and craftmanship. Furthermore, considering it is a 400 HP, 4000 lb sedan it is remarkably fuel efficient. I have averaged 21.5 MPG over the past 3yrs w/30K miles in mixed Bay Area driving. If you are looking for a remarkable automobile don't hesitate. You can pick up an immaculate and low mileage 2003 M5 for < $50K. This is a no brainer considering this is less than a new 530i or 335i. I have driven both and it is no contest.

Power, handling, ride quality, craftmanship and the sound and relentless pull of that 5 liter V8. It is a true super car.

none

 The E39 version of the M5 handles and performs superbly.  Though it is no longer the "king of sedans" when it comes to horsepower (its successor has that title), it is one of the best car designs of all times.  Many BMW enthusiast prefer its design (manual 6 speed and exterior styling) to the newer (more potent) M5.

 I traded my 2002 M3 conv. for a 2003 M5 

 The M5 is a legal race car. So many things to love about this car.  It is also an eye catcher, mine is Indi-red exterior and red interior, very sharp! The SMG does take a little to get use to, but does give the car a racing feel. Oh, and the exhaust note is heaven.

Great stereo, heads up display and the exhaust note.

I can't imagine how they can improve on the baby!

 The car's performance is better than those exotics like Ferrari and Lambo and Porsches. What I mean by performance is not just acceleration handling and braking, it includes family hauling, grocery shopping and everyday driving. Try hauling a baby seat with a Ferrari or Lambo. Try grocery shopping with a Porsche. In that means plus great handling, face numbing acceleration and you have the M5. It is my 2nd M5 and I love it. Although not as much as my previous M5 for fun-to-drive, or my neighbor's Honda CR-V for grocery shopping, but I love it, I love it, I love it

SMG is great once you get used to, performance of engine, sound of engine, stealthy look of it. Too many to note.

 I bought an 06 BMW M5 in May with 68,000 miles. On the drive home, the oil cooler broke and started leaking oil. That was a $1500 repair, an addition to the money I just spent purchasing the car and approximately $1000 in taxes. A few weeks later, the passenger restraint malfunction showed up. The battery cable had to be replaced. I spent nearly $1000 on that particular issue, maybe more. Shortly after, I began to get transmission malfunctions, as well as engine malfunctions which placed the car in limp mode. I spent $7000 fixing the transmission problems and just a few months later, I'm having problems again. I've lost $15,000 this year because of the M5 and I'm done.

V10 Engine, Active Seats, Heads-up Display

SMG Transmission

 This is an incredible sports sedan, lots of power at very high RPM's, I'm still in the break-in period, so I have not pushed it that far yet. I'm a little disappointed the launch control that had been advertised is not available in the U.S. overall I'm very happy with this vehicle, if you consider purchasing this vehicle remember there is a reason why there is a $3,700.00 gas guzzler tax, this car drinks it.                                

The "M" drive mode is a nice way to instantly turn this car into the race machine that it is. 

 I have purchased 27 new Vehicles in my life and this one has been the best purchase of my life. Yes, I had to pay full MSRP but got what I wanted. Enough toys to keep me happy and enough power to push me deep into my seat. I almost waited for the new 7 but I figured I'll wait till they have the bugs worked out of them.

Performance like this in a 4 door Sedan, simply amazing.

Make more of them!!

 Mild mannered for everyday, run of the 

mill driving, an absolute BEAST when 

 This is the car for people who like to 

drive and don't have any desire to 

impress anyone, with the exception of 

young car enthusiasts who when you pass 

them  will invariably give you 

 I bought it because there really is nothing else in its class.  If you want a very fast and very comfortable big sedan with a 6 speed, this is your only choice.  I owned an M3 before, and the M5 is much more comfortable/luxurious.  The M5 does give up quite a bit of agility to the M3, but it makes up for that with the quiet and comfortable ride.  Have a very thorough pre-purchase inspection done as there are some very expensive parts on this car.  Look for a well-maintained car that was owned by an enthusiast. Reliability is very good for a car in this class, but you will be in for a surprise if you are not used to BMW maintenance/repair costs. They need all cooling parts replaced @ 5 years.

Luxury /comfort (nice sound deadening, thick glass, comfortable seats, not rock-hard suspension, etc.), 6 speed manual, nimble for a car of this size, 19+ mpg in mixed driving, looks 10X better than the 540i.

Reliability is pretty much middle-of-the-road (about like a GM, Ford, etc.) when compared to all other cars, but reliability is great when compared to other performance sedans (Maserati, Audi S6, Jaguar R, Mercedes AMG).  Would be great if it were as reliable as a Honda, but then it would be a Honda.

 Solid.  Fast.  Stealth.  Fun. Hugs the road like a train on a track.

A single play CD player in the dash would be a nice addition to the CD changer in the trunk.  Cup holders are feeble.  Garage door opener only works when the ignition is turned on - it should work at all times.

 Just an amazing all around car.  Sports car performance with five passenger seating and the ability to haul groceries.  The stealth aspect is nice too.  I love it.

Engine, drivetrain, handling, utility.

Clutch takes little getting used to.  Not really stuff but there is a fairly sharp engagement point.

 must test drive it to beleive the power

sports button

 Traded a Lexus RX300 for the BMW. The BMW is far more nimble and fun to drive. My gas mileage has been great, 18 to 20 in town and 25 to 26 on the highway. The BMW is not as quiet or luxurious as the Lexus but has more room behind the rear seat and the seats are more comfortable (still pretty hard though). My only complaint is that the interior is dfficult to keep clean. The dash and synthetic seats look tough but show every spec of dust. Advice: don't get the black interior.

 Love this car! Nothing to wrong with it..they couldve really made it more fancy in the inside for a BMW..its lacking. Stereo isn't great, again for a BMW. 

Bluetooth, automatic rain sensors, steering wheel controls, sunroof

Better radio, more cup holders, dials for the heating and air!, automatic rain sensors in sunroof. 

 I have had this x3 for 4 months and MAN, it's great. We own a 2003 325Cic, and the x3 handles and moves better. Stability and handling are just amazing, let alone the braking capabilities. The 5-speed auto tranny is just right and shifts smoothly, the sport program feels eager to go, downshifting and holding gears in the right moments and situations. The tiptronic manual program is great when you want to really drive. I would rather have a 6 speed manual, you lose invaluable torque with the automatic, but not a big deal. Cornering is just like a 3-series. The aggressive look is perfect, it tells BMW all around, love the style.

 Rides rough, lots and lots of repairs. I have had the moon roof repaired 2 times over 9k, new brakes, lots of electronic problems, water pump, radiator, heck the whole car has had problems.  I only have 100k miles on the car. It has cost me a fortune.

 Great car to drive a little bumpy but not bad.  Fuel economy isnt as good as I hoped but better then others.  Overall like the car funt to drive will probably buy another BMW.

Performance

smoother ride

 First time BMW owner, and so far impressed. Responsive steering, excellent braking, front seats very comfortable. Could have used more sound proofing for interior. Road noise and wind flowing across top noticeable. Tight fitting vehicle, no rattles. Titanium int. seems durable.  Easy to handle. A head turner. Cargo area seems small with rear seats up.

 I purchased this car in Germany and have had it up to 120 mph on the autobahn.  even at that speed it handled like a dream.  it seems to get its best mileage at around 70 mph on the highway.  My last vehicle was a Nissan Pathfinder and I thought I would miss the extra space that it provided.  I have had no issues with the cargo room with this car, even with two small children.  

I love the heated seats.  I did not think it would be as big of a deal as I do now.

The navigation system needs to be more user friendly and intuitive to use.  It is hard to see what route you are supposed to take if the screen is using the blue color scheme.  It takes a while and does not stick out but the route is marked in white and it blends in with the map.

 Well, it's no surprise that the X3 has not let me down. It is, as with every BMW offered, the best in its class. No other SUV can touch the X3 mainly because it's an SAV... there's a huge difference.  Homerun! The only other small SUV I'd own is an 07 X3!!

Incredible handling and the surprising cargo capacity. And who can forget the panoramic moonroof?!

 With the 2006 iteration of the X3, the gray cladding is gone from the front end.  A matching painted from end with repositioned fog lights has dramatically improved the aesthetics of the vehicle.   Our X3 has been driven some 800 miles, and over these miles the vehicle has performed flawlessly.  The quality and  finish on this factory ordered X3 is first class.  The handling is superb. The X-Drive works to make driving in water-filled pitted lanes far less demanding of the driver.    The X3 isn't an M3 when it comes to handling, but is IMHO handily superior to the offerings by other SUV marques.  Overall, the X3 is quality and value under $50k. 

On board computer, tilt-down reverse mirror, Bluetooth technology, incredible sunroof, seats that fit like a glove, telescopic steering wheel, world class suspension, silky inline 6 engine. 

Chrome exhaust tips should be installed at the factory.

 This is my 7th BMW and I purchased this one pre-owned with about 10k miles on it. It is a great vehicle, handle like my 330ci and is really quick! Great view of the road, great long distance car also. Mileage is just ok, but that's to be expected of an AWD vehicle. Very safe for my wife and two kids under 2 yrs old! Confident and comfortable! Always enjoy ownership experience with BMWs - total ownership with no additional out of pocket expenses makes life easy!!

Large sunroof, surprisingly large cargo capacity, quick and fun-to-drive for a family vehicle!

 So I want to start off with that I’ve never owned a German car before. So my notes and my review will be coming from that stand point. This information will hopefully help those thinking of buying a used BMW.

Car facts:

One owner

No accidents

Non smoker

 Love this car the more I drive it and still trying to figure out the functions. The car has great maneuverablity and I am able to zip in/out of traffic while feeling very much in control. Pick up is very fast and good in all driving modes, but a bit hesitant around corners after a complete stop.

Nav system is one of the best with directions displayed between the tach and speedometer including exit number and street name. Radio stations can also be read from the same display and so can phone numbers etc which makes it convenient. Has a texting capability but haven't used it yet. Blue tooth understands most commands and so far avg. fuel consumption is 21mpg at 80mph with AC on. No problem with blind spots which was the issue with most of the other SUVs I test drove. Back up camera has two options with sides views and green and red guide lines. Still getting used to the car shutting off so I don't use it that often. Sunroof extends all the way back to the passenger seat. I use 89

I wish there was an unlock button in the driver's door and more storage space. Cup holder a bit awkward as you have to reach around the gear shift and my hands are small. If the dog is in the passenger front seat she could easily shift the gear. Shifting to the rear requires an unlock button and you have to shift forward to move back, so a bit confusing. Nav system delays similar to a computer so response is not as quick as I need at times. 

 First of all, the most annoying feature of this car is the automatic engine shut off!

It shuts off the engine when you stop unless you disable it.

 This x3 is an agile and fun ride.  Zero to 70 mph in seconds, quiet even after rattling around farm to market roads with farm or remodeling supplies. The color is very nice and even when I might exceed the posted speeds, no tickets so I am (tongue in cheek) thinking it is stealthy too!  It is very cool looking and I've had lots of positive comments from both men and women so not much of a "chick ride" in my opinion.  Only drawback is the built in safety feature that I dislike... If the driver or front seat passenger doesn't hit the unlock button positioned dead center of the dashboard then your passengers must "double tap" the door handles to open, which roughly translates to them trying to jerk the darn things off of the doors even if you remind them repeatedly!!!   I wish that feature could be disabled but my service advisor tells me it can't.

 I recently "test drove" a pre-owned 2014 X3.  The dealer was very knowledgeable and we ended up driving about 15 miles during my drive.  The car had 34K miles on it, yet it still looked new.  The leather seats were in great shape.  I have read some articles that mention a firm ride.  I have been driving for 45 years and the X1 has one of the nicest (and sportiest) rides of the many vehicles I have driven.   The ride was certainly not overly firm.  In fact, it was downright fun.  When the rear seats are folded, there is a surprising amount for room.  If you want to have a little fun while driving your small SUV, this is the one to get.  I just wish the new models weren't so expensive.  Forty-five to fifty-five thousand is a lot of money for a small SUV, regardless of how nice it is.    BTW:   I did not reply to all of ratings because I did not have the opportunity to try all of them.

 I have had this X3 for 2 years and love everything about it except the "run flat" nitrogen filled tires. Twice a year ALL my tires show low tire warning with the temperature change. I live 25 miles form the dealership, so it is a little disconcerting. The dealership ALWAYS takes care of it timely as long as they are open. That is my only complaint on the entire car.  I love the comfort and convenience of everything on the inside. The headlights are amazing as I live outside the city and drive on long roads that I need to see the sides of the roads for deer etc, and a long way in front for any hazards. The mileage is great for the size of the engine I chose, which I love. Great pickup and great handling.

 Very impressed with this 3.5 x3 after one month, the heads up display along with steering wheel voice command and what is now a very easy to use i drive system make it very simple to drive the vehicle, change radio, adjust navigation etc without removing your eyes from the road.

Suspension and engine are amazing, if you can avoid the hilarity of flooring it, the vehicle gets reasonably impressive fuel mileage.

 I love my X3. After test driving the RX350, Mercedes GLK, FX35 and the Audi Q5 I kept going back to the X3 couldn't remember the features of the others only that of the X3. The back seat is roomy enough for my teenage son. I like the quietness of the ride. I haven't found anything that I don't like about this vehicle yet. Great birthday gift to myself

technology package, heated seats. 

 We now have about 12,000 miles on the X3. BEST utility vehicle I have ever owned. Fuel economy is right at 26.5 p tank. Have gotten as high as 32mpg when cautious? And this was obtained with mid grade. To date there are NO maint. Issues at all. Flawless vehicle and American made. Storm grey and oyster interior are cool in summer here in GA. As for the auto shut off....was rough at first but at about four thousand miles the process smoothed out totally. And it does help save fuel.

As mentioned in the previous review the storage just left of the steering wheel fits a mid size 9mm. I like the run flats for the extra security when my wife has the car. We also have a 535i GT with run flats. The only people complaining about run flats are the children that write for the various car mags. For us real people they do a great job of convenience and protection.

Better sun visors, darker tint on the windows......that's about it. And when you order your new X3.....pick it up at the factory. That is a wonderful experience. W are going back for a third time in July of this year. WELL WORTH your time and I guarantee you will learn and love it.

 Be sure you have lots of money to spend on upkeep- once the warranty is over it will cost you. Dealer costs are very high and parts are astronomical. I love the way the X3 drives but if I were to do it over I wouldn't. My dealer wanted $500 to update my navigation map! Ugh!!In fact I just traded the vehicle for another non- BMW.

 This is a good car; the acceleration and the breaking system doesn't see to be all that great but I feel safe in it.

 Easy drive ability! The seats heat up fast. Electronics are easy to figure out even for an old person!

 Very expensive to repair. Check engine light remained on 2x. Once for faulty fuel sensor and 2nd for software problem.  Back hatch would not open - no manual way to do so and cost to repair was $2,000 and took full week to correct. Run flats are a joke.  Good for about 30,000 miles and cost almost $400 per tire. BMW Connected Drive can be frustrating as it does not always connect. Find the voice activation poor. Other than that the handling and performance lives up to its reputation.

 My wife wanted a mid size SUV which was NOT front wheel drive or front wheel biased.

This pretty much directed us to Audi Q5, BMW X3and Mercedes GLK350.

Each had its strong points, but the BMW X3 had the most useable space and no real negatives.

We're very happy with our decision. Ours was pretty well optioned and had the highest sticker price of the 3, but with USAA and BMW incentives, wound up the least expensive.

The base engine has plenty of zip and is reasonably fuel efficient (not quite up to EPA estimates, but still not bad).

 I drove my past car for 12 years because I never like anything else enough to buy it.

 I waited for this X3 to be available hoping that I would like it.

I am so happy I waited.

I Love It!

I got it loaded with sport package, tech package, convenience package, cold package.

 superb SUV. Acceleration and handling are great. I have about 6000 miles in 4 months and love every mile. We get 26+ miles per tank....every tank. Pure hiway will get 29. This car is comfortable, reliable, economical, fast and very useful in everyday life. VERY easy to get in and out of. Seats are supportive and comfortable. Great cargo area with easy access. Good hidden storage also. I love this "truck". Bottom line.........I recommend this vehicle to all in the market for a midsize SUV.

The engine, transmission combination is superb. Responsiveness and economy superb. Ergonomics are among the best ever. 

May I suggest Better/Bigger sun visors. How about dual visors so we can cover side window as well as front. Please....this is my third BMW and all have tiny, inadequate visors. 

 Drove BMW 328i for 5 years, now X3 35i.

The engine is just amazing! Great acceleration. 8 speed transmission is so smooth that you can only tell changing gears by the exhaust note. 

 I've owned 4 BMW's and this will be my last.

There is a problem with the transmission that BMW knew about and didn't fix.

They continued to make cars with this problem.

When the car is not on, you cannot put it on neutral.

Which means you cannot tow your car.

 We took delivery of our new X-3 at the BMW Performance Center, Greer, SC.

Anyone buying a new X-3 should take advantage of this opportunity, it was first rate.

Our X-3 had the convenience package, premium package, tech package, and sports package.

I wish BMW made more use of buttons than depending on the Idrive but it works well with a cutting edge car.

I have test driven several X-3's over the years and found the ride to be choppy and the cabin less than comfortable. All has changed for 2011. At the performance center, we had the opportunity to drive the X-3's (theirs) at the edge of their performance envelope which demonstates how well these cars can perform.

 The BMW salesman took me for a wild test ride in a San Antonio flash flood that cinched the deal.  Then the car out jeeped the Jeeps in DC's Blizzard of '09, handling 12" of unplowed snow without problems.  Then to top it off, I ended up driving through Nashville's flood of 2010 negotiating severely flooded roads and torrential rain with confidence.  Having a sharp car that turns heads is nice.  Having the same car survive two major natural disasters and keep motoring without a scratch is X3i.  My salesman said a Volvo survives a crash great but that this little X3i avoids a crash the best. He was right.  

The Bluetooth.  The confident ride.  The zip.  The luxury features.  Safety. When my daughter turns 16 in four years this is the only car I'll trust her to drive.

Lower the price about 10K.  :)

 After trading in an Acura MDX, I went for the X3.  It is peppy, handles like all the other 3 series, hugs the road, has great pick-up and at 6'5", I have plenty of room.  In the snow it behaves like a military tank, and on the freeway it secures the road with confidence.  I bought it as a second car, and I find myself driving it daily. It's cargo capacity is more than enough and it allows for organizing anything inside.  I have had absolutely no problems.  I thought initially it was pricey, and now, boy! I got my money's worth and then some.

 As a huge fan of BMWs and somebody who currently owns 3 BMW's, I hate the X3.  It's under powered, and the transmission can be cluncky at the worst possible times.  (as you wait for it to find the right gear while your hanging out in the left lane trying to pass, with all the horsepower of a lawnmower).  On top of all this, my bigger 2006 V8 convertible gets better gas mileage.  WTF?

The seats are rock hard and everything (I mean EVERYTHING) is a cheap plastic.  I have so many squeaks and rattles, it's kinda amazing.  Seats squeak, the panoramic sunroof squeaks and the rear hatch makes a noise.  Then, on top of all this, you have to do everything TWICE.  Open the car?  Pull the leaver twice.  Turn off the car, twice (one to shut off engine, second to shut off power).  Adjust the temp?  Well, for that you got 3 manual adjustments.  Sure, you can use the "auto" feature, but then you have manual fan speed you have to adjust and the manual temp adjustment for the center vents????? 

 This is our first 2012 BMW X3 35i M Sports Package. My husband and I love the car but it drifts right. Even on a flat road the car will veer to the right if you let go of the steering wheel. The dealership had it for a week and came back and said that this was normal for the X3's. Does anyone else's X3 drift to the right? It's very noticeable at high speeds but you can still notice it at lower speeds.

 I'll preface my review in that this is my 3rd BMW. Each time I've gone to find a car, I have done an exhaustive analysis with spreadsheets multiple test drives and comparison figures recorded. Let's face it, cars aren't cheap and we should be happy with our choice after the deal is done and we drive off the lot. 

On each search, while the BMW wasn't the winner for all of the categories it had the best combination of features/performance and price that I was looking for.

 

My advise, order one, and you can still work your dealers over and you can get a much better price -- even as good as one already built.

 Traded in my old 2003 BMW X5 for a shiny new 2013 BMW X3 28i.

It doesn't have quite the build quality of the X5, but on the other hand, doesn't cost $80,000 either.

Road feel, handling, steering, and general sportiness/fun are outstanding.

The 28i 4 cyllinder turbo is surprisingly powerful and capable.

Absolutely love the interior and all the tech gadgets (sat nav, bluetooth, large computer screen, whole music library on hard disk, etc etc).

 We leased a 2005 X3 and loved it so much, we leased a new 2008 when the first lease was up. I wanted to post this review because many people post because they have an axe to grind. Both X3's we owed were excellent. The 2008 has been completely perfect, no flaws or repairs in 22,000 miles. The new 3.0si engine that was put into X3 beginning in 2007 flat out rips with 260 HP. Handling is great, yes it is a little stiff but you are rewarded with a SUV with 50:50 weight distribution and very sporty handling. If you want a cushy floaty ride, numb steering, and 30 MPG, look elsewhere. 

Adaptive xenon headlights swivel in the direction you are turning. Rain sensing wipers. Fast shifting 6 speed auto tranny. Heated seats that also warm your lower back. The new 3.0si motor. Drives like a BMW should. I actually like that this SAV is based on the older E46 platform. 

Gas mileage with the new engine is better than the 2005 engine, but is still not stellar. The Bluetooth hands free phone system is terrible.

 I bought this SUV a year ago and I'm extremely pleased.  Needs just regular maintenance as far as oil changes, etc.  No problems whatsoever.  Drives great and I feel very safe in this vehicle, especially in snow.  Very sturdy and I live in Pittsburgh so we get a fair amount of bad weather.



 My review somehow incorrectly stated the miles on my X3. The engine valve issue started at 6K, Not 60K as it states. And the car only has 11K,Not 110K as the reviews states, and yes it has been in the shop 5 times in a year and a half. The followup to my last review: After being in the shop for the 5th time BMW thinks the valve slam/tapping is normal! you should hear this especially during a cold start...it sounds like crap, no kidding it slams and thumps like crazy, and this was AFTER the cylinder head replacement! the sound comes and goes still! BMW WILL NOT DO MUCH FOR YOU AFTER THESE ATTEMPTS TO FIX A DEFECTIVE ENGINE ACCEPT TELL YOU THAT THE SOUND IS NORMAL!! BE WARNED FUTURE BMW BUYERS

None.  

Work on quality issues.

 I have owned my 2008 X3 for 1 year. The ride is great, handling is incredible. Brakes are superior. I have the winter package, it works well. Had a problem with the heating coils in the back seat, they stuck. Dealer did a great job fixing the problem. GPS and radio are cheap at best. Gas mileage average. AWD is great. Overall great car so far.

Ride, handling, engine, brakes.

 My wife was tired of her Camry and wanted to sit high in traffic.  Looked at the RX350, the E35 and even the new GLK, but nothing matched the driving dynamics of the X3.  I don't even like SUVs, but I really enjoyed driving this one.  Brakes are even stronger than in my Mercedes, and perhaps the best highway ride of any car we've owned.  Only complaint is the stereo controls are small and look alike, which is a common problem in BMW interiors.  We got a very basic X3.  Vinyl seats, base stereo, no nav and no option packages.  Ours has the automatic, heated front seats and privacy glass; no other options.  What is amazing is that even without any of the packages the car looks and feels great.

Handling, acceleration, braking and ride.  Interior is extremely well designed.

More intuitive controls for the stereo.

 Due to an old back injury I needed something with more supportive/ comfortable seats that was easy to get in and out of. I tried almost everything out there until I found BMW's X3. The seats and height were absolutely perfect so I ordered the car based heavily on those two things and relied on BMW's reputation for the rest. I certainly was not disappointed. It goes and stops like nothing I have ever driven and if you don't watch your speed it will easily creep into triple digit territory. It corners like it's a car and although firm, it rides like a dream. The fit and finish is top notch and the cabin is quiet. It has great head and legroom and everything is where it's supposed to be. 

Comfort, speed, braking, handling, fit, finish and quality. The silky smooth engine! It has a spare. It can tow 3500 lbs. Gas mileage for a 4000 lb vehicle is great (I seem to average about 25 mpg no matter how I drive it). 

 Unexpected acceleration when going over bumps or after turning uphill can throw you into car in front of you, complete hesitation on entrance ramp, strange gear changes. Totally unacceptable and un-ultimate driving experience. Turned the 2007 model in as a lemon because it was so dangerous. 2008 is only slightly better than 2007. No help from software patches at dealer service dept. Will 

lease almost over

totally different transmission needed

 I just got my 2008 BMW X3 a few months ago back in April. I bought it off a used lot and as I drove away, the engine light came on. I've taken it in multiple times and I've had everything from my radio just suddenly not wanting to work to my car cutting off in the middle of a busy intersection. This car has almost gotten me in many accidents with its poor driving performance. I actually had it in the shop for a week during Thanksgiving and as soon as I got it back it broke down and left me stranded the day after. I got it back to the repair place and it magically had 10+ new issues. We have spent well over 3k in the past few weeks on this vehicle. I would absolutely never suggest this car to anyone especially as their first car unless you want to constantly have your car in the shop and 0 money in  your wallet. I will never purchase a BMW ever again. They say to get rid of a BMW once it hits 85,000 miles... I should have listened.

Oh, and not to mention its HORRIBLE gas mileage. I fill up every week and it costs around 50 bucks every time. It's ridiculous.

 My wife and I traded in our car with our baby on the way and wanted an SUV that had both a manual transmission and a sun roof.

NO new cars come with both so We picked up our 2006 X3 with 68K and now have about 77K after almost a year and absolutely love it!

The storage in the back is a little tight but the movable tie downs are great.

We ended up buying the crossbars for the roof so we can put a cargo box on top for our annually beach vacation.

Worked wonderfully.

 Too heavy, not a precise and agile M car as its forebears were. Most of the performance is completely unusable in daily driving. Prepare to be beat at every stoplight unless you are really on it.  I think J. Clarkson said it best: completely annoying until you hit the M button. Too bad you can't use that button for 95% of your driving; meaning you will have a really annoying car for 95% of the time you are driving. Sold mine a bought Porsche: a massive improvement in just about every way. 

Was going to say nice paint job, then found out on trade in the trunk had a greater paint thickness than the rest of the car; meaning BMW had damaged the car and repainted it. The net effect was a potential (talked them out if it) reduction in the value of the car. Thanks BMW. 

Appalling idrive; 8 menus to change the fan speed, are you joking BMW? Get rid of it! Leather showing wear after 5000 miles; materials are not BMW normal standard. Agricultural noises on start up.

 the ultimate driving machine even for an SUV. love this car!! the way it drives and handles, awesome! ! If you love to drive .then BMW is the car for you! I have had it almost a year, bought it with 80,000 Miles, it has 95,000 now and it runs great.. car also handles very well in snow..I do know they are expensive to work on, I did buy a warranty and had to use it once....save me $600....so far so good with Warranty Direct

 This is my 3rd BMW and I would get it all over again; I love the bluetooh capability since I am on the phone most of the time. Over 40? Well, this guy would make feel 20 again without driving the typical and larger dad's SUV but with big enough cargo space than most SUVs. This guy was built to perform - you will be satisfied.

Bluetooth: got to have it; safety and technology must go hand in hand today!

I can't think of any; you will get what you pay for!

 I bought this 4 yr old X3 in August and so far it is a very good small suv. The tranny is ultra smooth, the engine is smooth & torquey. Steering is BMW excellent. Build quality is very good. Consumer Reports gives it a best buy for the '06 yr & good reliability or I wouldn't have purchased it. So far no problems. I would strongly recommend it to anyone looking for a good used suv in the $20K-$25K range

 So being the spoiled 16 year old that I am, my parents surprised me with this car before my birthday in December of last year. I absolutely love my car. When we bought it however, the radiator was busted and it was making some kind of ticking noise. We got that fixed. We kept the car in service and I haven't wrecked or anything. The car's rear tires were worn down when we bought the car so we replaced them. We didn't know at the time that when you buy an expensive car the the front and rear tires were two different sizes. So it messed the transfer case up. When they replaced that, the towing company bent my steering rack which is now throwing off some lights and one of my O2 sensors needs to be replaced. My local BMW dealership told me that once you replace one O2 sensor that you will have to replace the others, which I found out is a lie. But I also had my oil pan replaced, (it had an oil leak when we bought it), and I wouldn't recommend taking it to a place that "specializes" only on foreign made cars. They charged us $2,000 to fix it. One of the parts only costed $35 and the labor was $800. Other than what all has happened, the car is an outstanding car, I honestly don't want to get rid of it. I have 4 siblings. One is a baby and the car is able to fit his car seat in it just fine! The interior is amazing to clean. Mine is white with tan interior and it is easy to spill things on it. But it is also easy to clean. I absolutely love my car and I would recommend it to anyone.

 In temps of 100, when you get in car, compass will not work. After car cools down, about 20 min, compass works fine. Taken for repair twice, & they say not showing up on computer, so they can't find problem, but I can, when temp is around 100. Our warranty runs out next month with 17,000 miles. 

 I have a really loaded 2007 X3. It's an unbelievable machine. I buy new cars very frequently and have gotten kind of bored with them. The X3 has given me that teenage excitement of having a car again. I really enjoy driving it. Its acceleration, handling and braking are just awesome. All of the latest safety features are in it. The fit and finish are top notch. The leather interior is beautiful. The transmission can be used in regular automatic drive, sport drive and manual. Hands free communication and BMW assist are very convenient. The BMW is in a class by itself.       

Smooth, powerful engine. Great transmission. Beautiful interior. Voice recognition hands free communication. Fun to drive factor. I can go on and on.

Keyless go. More storage space in front and rear. 

 Purchased X3 CPO. Looks brand new. 

It has lots of pep but I wouldn't mind about 20 more HP. The ride is smooth. I have to laugh at anyone that says this is a rough ride...they have obviously never driven a jeep or a truck. The seats (front and back) are comfy. 

Acceleration is smooth. Sound system is amazing. The front and rear collision detection is handy. The nav is pretty good. In fact the vehicle is almost flawless. 

The ONLY flaw that I dont like is about this suv is that the leg room for drivers right leg is reduced by a hump in the interior wall by the gas peddle.

And it could use more storage. I have no where to put my sunglasses.

 I have the M Package and it's worth every penny,  is gorgeous and handling is superb. 

Acceleration is go and no breaks down. 

Gass is normal for a 6 in line. 

I have owned for 1 year,  buy it used with 119k and now after 10k, I have to say it's still running like new,  my wife love it and it drives like a sport car,  it turns very good and breaks/stop almost as my M3. 

Very safe on the rain or snow due to its awd.

 We purchase this 2005 3.0 X3 brand new. Besides its normal wear and tear and routine maintenance it has be by far the best and most reliable car we have had.

We really got our monies worth, being with the military this car has been up and down the German Autobahn and cruising the Interstates in the southeast.

Update: still running like a champ..

 The 2.5 has been surprisingly zippy to drive.  It is the best car on snow that I have ever owned.  Very rough ride and poor fuel economy are my two key complaints.  I've never had any significant problems and I have about 45,000 miles on it now.  It had several nuisance problems while under warranty like rattles and problems with warning lights but nothing significant.  BMW seems a little loose on their quality control, especially for the price. Overall, however, the car is excellent.  I have noticed it is a head turner too.  People still stop and look at it in parking lots and it is two years old.

Vehicle looks, roomy interior and brakes. It will stop on a dime and give you nine cents change.

 I bought my 2007 BMW X3 3.0si with about 70,000 miles in January 2012.  I was 28 years old at the time and excited about my purchase.  It was a CPO and had a 6 month warranty with it.  I drive about 30,000 miles annually and at almost 185,000 miles 4 years later I am left to ponder whether it was a good buy or not or whether I would do it again.  The car I bought had a new sticker price of something close to $44,000, so considering that the first 5 years / 70k miles absorbed about $26,000 of that made me feel good about the purchase.  It was KBB's book price for a private party sale in Good or Very Good condition.  Now that I've put 115,000 miles on it I look back at the service and maintenance history and just as I was starting to get impressed by how little went wrong in 115,000 miles but then I hit about 182k and it needed a starter, then tires, then transmission.  Needless to say it's been a bad month or so in the repair dept.  Here's a list of what I've needed to have done from 70 - 185k miles at the approximate mileage:

Every 10k - new oil and filter.

Every 20k - new air filter, clean MAF sensor.

80k - Water pump at approx.

90k - tires

 So, always wanted a BMW...finally bought one off a 3-year lease that was certified.

My salesperson said that once I owned a BMW that'd it'd be the only car I'd ever own again..he was SO correct!!

The handling is great for an SUV; just like a sports sedan.

And, yes, the ride is bumpy. I've read that it's been improved after 2006.

But I don't mind..because it handles so great in snow & rain.

 This car is a rocket on wheels.  So fast, yet so refined.  Smooooottthhhhh, almost too smooth.  You step on it at 70 mph and hang on.  The most powerful car I have ever driven.  The scary part is how safe you feel at ultra high speeds.  You feel like you are going 55 mph at 100 mph.  The craftsmanship in the interior of this car is second to none.  Beautiful carbon fiber and the heads up display is priceless when driving this beast.  You don't want to text and drive with this monster.  You could cover almost a mile in the seconds you use keying in "the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog."  This car comes alive at night when all the beautiful exterior and interior lighting packages show their stuff.  It's simply a blend between power and art.  I like the little things like the lighted door sills and the rear view camera that pops out from behind the BMW emblem on the top lip of the trunk lid.  The best part about this exotic sports car is finding a place to service and if necessary repair this beauty.  BMW dealerships exist in plentiful supply across the country.  It's the closest thing I have ever experienced to being in world class video racing game.  If you buy one of these, don't go nuts the first week.  Allow yourself time to acclimate to this beast's personality.  Unless you are an experienced race car driver, you need to hone your skills to match this car's capabilities.  Have fun and be safe.

 After 8 months, the technical brilliance of the M6 continues to overwhelm. The vehicle design is stunning, top up or down, and the views from all sides always bring a smile and a thumbs up from onlookers. The 575 HP produces startling acceleration and the instant choice between automatic and paddle lets you control as much as you like, with the manual so much fun that you feel like a kid again. Engine sounds are thrilling. Brakes are simply awesome, and the very slight understeer from the RWD gives you the feeling of being in complete control at all times. Quality of all finishes is meticulous, and the sound system is symphony hall level. The M6 is simply state of the art, and the only downside is that there are so few roads where this sensational beauty can be driven to its full potential. Fantastic.

 I leased a 2016 BMW X3 3.5 X drive with the M sports package for my wife. We were hoping to use the vehicle for a road car. I have tried to sit in the front seats of the car. They are abysmal. I do not feel my size is unusual at 6'2" and 225 lbs. I am unable to sit in them for  more than 10 minutes without being very uncomfortable. In my 50 + years of sitting in automobile seats have never sat in the front seat of any model of any car or truck and been uncomfortable. If you are a person of small stature the seats in this vehicle are tolerable. Make sure any guest you will have in your X3 will be the same size. I sent an email to the BMW "geniuses"  but have not gotten a response. My review of the BMW discussion groups shows this bad seat design in the X3 has been an issue for quite a while. If you are test driving this car you need to drive it for 15 to 20 minutes at a minimum. If you can't sit comfortably in the car to drive it, everything else about the car is meaningless. I would recommend any other vehicle than the X3.

 Nothing really. I really enjoy this vehicle.

 Although I relay on feedback and reviews, it took a while to decide to write one. However, I wanted to write this review for people interested in diesel cars as I was, and there weren’t too many comments in regards to diesel engines. 

I was in search of a diesel car that will have a high MPG and be a little bit bigger than a sedan. I didn’t care about brands in the beginning knowing that I will sort it out at the end based on price/mpg/quality, etc.

After narrowing down I ended up with 2 models: BMW X3 diesel and MB GLK250 diesel. I lived in Oregon at that time and the price in NW was higher than other areas. As I had time to search and not be in rush, I found a 2013 GLK250 in California @ $28K with 21000 miles on it. PURCHASE it for my wife.

 I looked at the Mercedes GLA, Audi Q3, and BMW X1.  The 2016 BMX X1 was by far the best.  A very practical vehicle, with excellent cargo and passenger room for a compact SUV.  Excellent performance and gas mileage from the 4 cyl turbo engine.  BMW handling and overall driving experience  is an added bonus.  I have owned two BMW 3 series sedans.  The handling is not as good a these, but the handling is better than any other compact SUV I have driven. 

The most value for the money compared to other luxury compact SUVs.

 I purchased my X1 new off the showroom floor and when leaving found a ding on the dash and a light was missing in the door.   I was told my BMW had navigation that talks, but it didn't.  I was told it had blind spot monitoring, but it didn't, this car has a serious blind spot.  The dealer wrote a "We Owe" to fix the dash.  Trying to get BMW to do anything is like pulling teeth.  2 months later ding is still there and no light.  Their response is, it's coming from Germany and we have to get approval.  Just make sure your X1 is in perfect condition when you leave, because it will never get fixed.  Sad to say this will be my last BMW because of the service I've received.  

UPDATE:  Finally after contacting Better Business Bureau, Fields BMW replaced the dash and the light in the door.  It was also missing the front grill cover and they replaced it too.  This was a nightmare getting it done and I had to contact: BBB, BMW and every social media available.  It took me over 100 phone calls, most of which didn't get returned, to get the car in new condition.  After dash was replaced I traded it for a new Lexus ES350 that I love; mainly because I hated Fields BMW and didn't want to return and they own both BMW dealerships near me.

 

 Have driven my X1 over 2000 miles and still the fuel efficiency is only 27.3 max. I drive only highways, use the cruise control, and the eco option.

The steering wheel feels heavy (in comparison with my old SAAB that is a delight to drive) but I will take a bunch of weight lifting classes with a personal trainer starting next week so this should help to drive (no kidding - it is a heavy cow, like it has no power assist, maybe it does not).

The car does not allow for a trailer mount to put a bike rack on the back, the roof rack is hard to find (yes, Thule apparently makes it but I ordered one at REI over a month ago and I am still waiting). It looks nice in orange, though...

Valencia Orange, general looks, 

trailer mount, roof racks at the dealerships, easy steering wheel operation, make it an outdoor bum friendly, please

 Drives like a nice little SUV sports car. I would recommend the xdrive over the sdrive, the xDrive has a much better drive feel.

 35 mpg on a 3000 mile trip 24+intown in winter        don't like run flat tires curbed one cost to replace 400.00 besides being noisy. fun to drive easy to park we are empty nesters so the size works for us .Good dealer service too

 The great handling and braking of a 3 series with the added visibilty and cargo space of an SUV.

 Drives very nimbly. Steering is easy on arthritic hands; in fact, that was one of the reasons we replaced a perfect 330xi. The only complaint I have is that the trunk release is near the hood release and not easily reachable. Still love the car.

 Handy as a pocket on a shirt.

 For an SUV this has been a great car for an auto sports enthusiast.  Original tires (Michelins) were the worst thing about the vehicle.  Once I put on good tires it has handled even better dry/wet/snow and nothing else got worse.

Power and handling.

Switch to a differnt tire.  Make interior more ergodynamic.  Add more and better placed cup holders.  

 Every time I switch cars with my wife and son I realize what a real driving machine this vehicle is - you just have to sit behind the wheel to experience how it performs - it is such a solid well built vehicle.

The seats - the driver's cockpit and the feel of the drive.

 10 years ago I was in a bad auto accident.  Since that date I have taken notice of safe auto's.  The X 5 might be the safest SUV on the road.  Style and confort are great.  10 air bags.  The gas milage is like most SUV's.  The X 5 drives like the 530i.  Great value and all wheel drive lets you go in the snow.  Buy one, you won't be sorry, just broke.

10 speaker stero.

 This was my dream car.  In purchasing 

 overall toyota has done an outstanding 

innovation to its landcruiser while 

many people may perfer the sequioa 

becasue of the cheaper tag the 

landcruiser is well wroth the price it 

 This is my first 4x4 i have had a lot 

of fun driving it up and down 100 meter 

high sand dunes in the UAE then going 

out of the sand and inflate the tyres 

and drive at 100 MPH for hours, and few 

 If you purchase the Land Cruiser for its intended use it cannot be beat. For low maintenance and off road, on road ability it cannot be beat in the long run. It is not intended to be a grocery getter. All are built in Japan and intended to last 300k miles. They are shipped all over the world for tough off road conditions. Enjoy your Cruisers. I have owned 5 throughout the years. Do your research and you will not be disappointed. Look at the vehicles diplomats are escorted in dangerous situations around the world and you will notice a large majority are the Cruisers.

Durability and ruggedness with civility.

The newer versions have addressed the issues of on road ability. 

 Look anyone who owned or currently owns Landcruisers should be fairly well-versed with them. Everyone knows of their reliability & craftsmanship, areas where they are 2nd to none. No doubt they are huge and ponderous to drive and like any other large SUV are big boxes in the wind that return poor gas mileage. However, for pure reliability and comfort, toyota comes thru. This is a pricey vehicle, no doubt, and you would expect memory seats and a more appointed interior, but a true toyota buyer does his homework thoroughly up front and knows their strength is in the fact that you will own this vehicle for years to come and when you move on, most likely your loyalty will remain with toyota     

Nav, nav, nav. Rear camera.

 Forget about the hype from other 

manufacturers who claim to be the 

best, the original, 'professional 

grade', etc.  The Toyota Landcruiser 

is the best built, most durable, full-

 Hi all, just wanted to voice my 

opinion.  I just purchased a 2002 

Landcruiser, this after owning a 2001 

vehicle until I purchased a 96 

Landcruiser. FJ80 as the more avid 

Landcruiser Owner would call it, 

Knowing that you have a tank like 

 I purchased this vehicle used in 1998 with 38000 miles. I bought my first Land Cruiser, an FJ40, in 1976 and my first wagon in 1978. You cannot beat the durability and reliability of this vehicle. It handles very well, rides smooth and quiet on road, and will go just about anywhere offroad when needed. It will never leave you stranded.

Solid construction and 'go anywhere' capability. The straight six has tons of torque and is absolutely reliable.

Fuel economy is around 12mpg overall.  Like to see a little more legroom up front.

 Bought the Land Cruiser because I heard of its great reliability.  Its been a good car, able to haul kids up skiing and having no trouble with snow.  My problem is maintenance.  It goes through brake pads and rotors.  Second set of rotors in 80,000 miles.  Also had the head gasket blow out in Vail, which was extremely expensive.  Spent far more on maintenance on this car than any other I've owned, including my Fords.  I leave it in the garage except to haul kids skiing.  Think I got the LC Lemon.

 After 9K miles in four months, I am 

 I've had my LC for 7 years and the only things I've had to replace are tires and brakes.  The car is bulletproof not just in toughness but also styling and functionality.  Surfing out of the way spots is a piece of cake.  Driving in snowdrifts -  no problem.  Pulling up to the finest restaurants - you feel totally comfortable and stylish.  This car will be used for years to come and will never be sold...

Visibility, looks, toughness, simple functionality, spaciousness and reliability.

more cupholders, side mirrors aren't motorized (although the mirrors within are).

 A little surprised at the maintenance 

costs. Bought this vehicle used at 78k 

 I spent my formative years in Papua New 

Guinea, where, if you wanted to get 

someplace, you drove a Cruiser.  Not 

much has changed.  I visit Hoduras, 

 if you are talking Build Quality and

Reliability then throw in excellent 

ride, comfort  and the best damn air 

conditioner in a vehicle then the L.C.

is the best suv on the planet. i have 

 with a week, I used this suv and got 

sick of playing inside this because it 

works ploddingly in gear down and 

noisily. I got a bad feeling in turning 

left or right from highway

 So, I researched all the large SUVs  and decided to make a good sound decision and go with the 2002 Land Cruiser.  So far this machine exceeds all of my expectations.  The comfort is unbelievable and the body is a timeless. If you have the pleasure of owning this car, you know the name  and its history stands alone in its own class.  Why buy anything else when you can own a Land Cruiser.

Fuel economy could be better.  Vented seats would have been a nice touch.

 Great SUV... second Cruiser I currently own. Other is a 1994.  Came off of an Audi Allroad (01) nothing but problems with the Audi it was  about $1000 a month in repairs the 1994 Cruiser averaged 0.  Live back a long gravel road it was tearing the Audi to pieces.  Cruiser has gas mileage but a small price to pay (although its getting larger).  Would recommend this car to anyone.  I will never own anything else. Except maybe the new FJ Cruiser. 

Soundness and reliability

second row seats that fold up to the sides like the third row - that way you can sleep in the back while camping

 Nice car overall.  Cons include difficulty accessing 

CD changer and understanding how to use the DVD 

player.

4 wheel drive.  smooth ride.  low key demeanor.

 I have a 2002 Landcruiser and absolutely love it. Traded my 2000 4 Runner for a2005 BMW X5. Turned in under the lemon law...fuel gauge never worked properly and it just stopped one day...BMW gave me a 2006 version but I could never get comfortable with it and kept watching to see if it would light up...check engine soon.  After only 3,000 miles, I went back to Toyota and another Landcruiser. It is great on long trips, handles like a dream and have had absolutely no problems with my 2002 model.  Reliability is number one to me being a single female.

Everything about it.  It is a wonderful vehicle

None except maybe better gas mileage but that probably is not possible

 Refined, quite, smooth and powerful.  Supberb fit and finish. Excellent on interstate or pot holes. Confidence inspiring brakes and excelleration. I have owned 4-wheel Ford Exploirer and all-time-4 Range Rover.  They were both older and both may be technically superior today, but I cannot imagine loving any vehicle like my Cruiser

87 octane gas. Suspension (and adjustments), brakes, steering, transmission, firm adjustible seats, adjustible height control, a real tailgate etc. Quality!

 Overall generally pleased with this vehicle and hope it is as reliable as everyone says, but...   After driving for a few months I am disappointed in the lack of some basic features one would expect in a $60K luxury SUV.  Very basic and bland vehicle and becoming extremely dated in its offering. I have nicknamed it the dinosaur.

Comfortable, smooth and reasonably powerful with good off road capability, solid build.

No memory seats, no rain sensing or one touch wipers, interior lighting poor and not controllable from dash, no high intenstiy self leveling head lamps, JBL sounds system poor at best, no third row heat vent?, seat backs and lumbar area do not heat, climate control system struggles.

 I purchased the long bodied 8-seater and although this car is no beauty to look at, it is the best car I've ever owned, and most certainly the best of my SUVs.  Because it is a diesel powered car, the fuel consumption is much better than the gas models. It has great stability and efficiently corrects any tendency to sway in speedy curves.  Design is extremely sturdy and strong but heavy acceleration is remarkably good.  Service prices are quite reasonable. Rational design allows for very fast service and time/mileage between required service is highly competitive.

Performance, both on and off road. Reliability, all body, motor and transmission elements are sturdy and seem built to last. Comfort is excellent except for air conditioning. Road holding is excellent. Sound isolation is excellent and allows full enjoyment of radio and CD  player. 

 This my 5th Land Cruiser.  I was going to switch to the LX 470, but decided that my 4 and 7 year old boys could spill milkshakes and ketchup in a Land Cruiser just as easy as in a Lexus!  Great vehicle.  I bought this one sight unseen at the end of the year and didn't get the exact interior package that I wanted, but that's not big deal.

Reliability

More power.  Paint side bumpers to match vehicle like on Lexus LX 470.

 I don't think there is a better SUV on the market. Looks, quality, performance, capability and reliability are unmatched. While not inexpensive, worth every penny.

NAV is great. Ability to perform in the snow unbelieveable. Plenty of room. Easy to handle in the city. Great on the highway.

 My family has owned six (6!) Land Cruisers over the years, but I was the black sheep who strayed and purchased a Range Rover. The Rover was gorgeous, and a very able 4x4, but the thing was incredibly unreliable. When repairs were needed (which was often) the bills were frequently more than $1000-$2000. 

Long story short, I wised up, sold the Rover and bought an '06 Land Cruiser. 

There's a reason the UN owns 12,000 Land Cruisers: you can't kill 'em. This vehicle is, by far, the most reliable & able SUV in the world. I am the prodigal son who returned, and the LC is where I'm going to stay.

After all, my Mom's '99 LC just hit 300,000 miles; she's shooting for 1,000,000. Stay tuned.

Marvelous suspension, classic styling, reliability, confidence that I can go anywhere, anytime, in as safe a manner as possible. I trust the Land Cruiser (and its side curtain airbags) with my family. 

 We purchased it in the summer of 2005 and have taken it on cross country trip, over endless NYC potholes and off road. It is smooth, refined, has great visibility and extremely comfortable front row seating.  The engine, the shifting and all other mechanical features appear flawless.

Never had a single problem with it. Nothing.  NB, I looked at Range Rovers (then $25k more) and the LX 470 (then $9k more). Looking now, used car value of the Range Rover is the same as the Land Cruiser and the LX 470 is only $2k more - so the extra cash would have virtually evaporated over time.

memory seats; more intuitive climate and audio controls. The GPS software seems to be lost more frequently than I'd like - but I haven't updated the software.

 We bought our LC in the winter of 2005 and had Toyota not made the new ones look like overgrown Highlanders we would have bought a new one.  This is the single best vehicle I have ever owned.  I have driven it as a commuter, on long road trips, and even camped in it and it has exceeded expectations in every scenario.  I also love the interior appointments, and the stateliness of the exterior styling, and think of it as everything the Range Rover should be without the constant trips to the shop. With more than 5 years of ownership the only times it has been in the shop have been to repair body damaged caused by my wife's impatience, and routine maintenance.

Soft leather interior, back-up camera, removable third row, and ample storage.

 I have owned 8 other SUV's.  Fords, 

Chevys, Nissans, and Toyotas.  This is 

the finest SUV, by far that I have ever 

owned.  NIce styling, great ride and 

comfort, with superb dependability!

 Traded In 2004 BMW X5 for first Toyota Landcruiser and could not be happier.  The Landcruiser is much bigger and roomier.  Interior room is spacious and comfortable and build quality is excellent.  Fuel economy is fair, but this is expected with a vehicle of this size and weight.  The Landcruiser rides and handles exceptionally well for a large SUV.  The ride is smooth and comfortable and even more enjoyable on long trips.  The cabin is full of driver amenities and the vehicle is built with quality and Toyota reliability.  The 275 HP engine is smooth and responsive.  Love the Bluetooth capability.  Satellite radio is an option that should come standard for the price of this SUV. The best SUV.

Bluetooth, DVD, AWD and passenger room.

Satellite radio should be standard not an option.

 Initally had a 2000 LC, went to several other cars and SUV's including Escalade, MDX, RL, etc.  This new 2006 Cruiser is simply fantastic, and I am sure I will never sell it.  I have driven and owned nearly everything else, and as a whole package nothing comes close.  Secure, quiet, comfortable, safe, and you know when you get in you WILL make it to your destination.

Air suspension, ride height control, navigation/DVD, side passenger airbags, and superior ride, fit, finish. VVTi additional HP.

 I can bring it anywhere i need to go 

with anyone i need to bring with me all 

with the comfort and luxury in mind. 

The extra gas money is worth it if you 

really use the car for its intended 

 this is my 5th landcruiser and my next 

car will be a landcruiser.  

 Picked up the car from the dealership when purchased and the car was making a ear piercing noise coming from the wheels.

Ended up being the brake shields rubbing the brake rotors.

 The car is not that good looking to begin with, but it comes in any color you want as long as its white, black, 50 shades of grey, or Christmas tree ornament blue or red, very boring.  You get what you pay for, but surprisingly  for the price the fit and finish are very good.. The interior does seem to contain a lot of shiny cheap plastic.  They also put a lot of emphasis on back seat legroom, but they didn't leave any upfront and that makes the car uncomfortable on a long trip.  I have already stopped to stretch my legs so as not to get a DVT. 

My major complaint is the CV transmission.  I'm sure this may be an adequate transmission is a state that is flat, or in a snowmobile; but where I live It is very hilly and there is the problem.   First it is noisy under acceleration and that acceleration is very poor.  It is slower that the 4 speed automatic it replaced and a snail when compared to a manual shift. The engine races when accelerating, and  it seems you are always waiting for the transmission to catch up.  The RPM are all over the place, and passing can take a long time and be dangerous.  Toyota put phony shift points in a transmission that doesn't shift; this is very irritating and it is one more thing to go wrong.  I wonder what Toyota was thinking?  Has anyone asked why the 2018 Camry started with a clean sheet of paper and they didn't put a CVT in that car?  My theory is that this transmission is light duty only.   

Instead of gears there is a belt between two drums, and unlike a gear that meshes, the belts probably need a high coefficient of friction to function and friction  spells wear.  I was going to purchase this car until a friend, who is a transmission technician , suggested I lease it because in about 60k-70k miles there is a good chance of transmission failure. Visits to various websites appears to bear that out.  If the factory has all this confidence with this gum band transmission why don't they offer a longer FACTORY warranty to give the buyer peace of mind? If there are a lot of problems model wide, resale will suffer.  Before you buy one insist on an overnight test drive to see if you can live with it.  Why can't Toyota give us options like a 6 speed auto, 5 speed manual, or a dual clutch auto?  

There really is no alternative except Kia, Hyundai, or Mazda since the Honda civic, Nissan Sentra, and Nissan Altima also have CVTs.  I realize that auto companies are being forced into this with CAFE averages, but I'm not happy with this transmission and a potential of a $4500+ replacement charge, when it is out of warranty, so they can meet the CAFE and be able to sell a Tundra. This is just my opinion, but if you are buying for the long term maybe you should research CVTs on some websites

Other complaints are lack of road feel, visibility is poor, and one has no idea where the front bumper is (maybe they need an upfront camera too), too much pedal travel in the brake, and difficulty getting in and out

 After doing my research on the 2017 Corolla I bought the XSE with Nav. So far I like the car for what it is drives nice ok power fairly comfortable. So after a week of ownership I needed foglights being told by sale staff that the did have them guess what it dose not. So long story short i'm stuck Toyota needs to pull there heads out and equip these cars correctly no fog lights how much could they cost really.Other than that i'm pretty happy with the car.But I won't but abother Toyota product bad customer service both corp and dealers.

 I have only had this car a little over a day.  I drive 45-60 minutes one way to work everyday.  So a total of 1 1/2 hours to 2 hours a day in my car.  If you do any kind of long distance driving, beware, the seats are extremely uncomfortable.  There is zero support.   Also, hard to get in and out of unless you are young in age and or in great shape.   I wish I would have paid more attention before I leased it.

 Really happy with my new Corolla. I replaced my 10 year-old Matrix with this fully-loaded version. So far I'm more than happy. If it serves me as well as did my Matrix, I couldn't recommend it too highly.

 I have been a Toyota fan since I bought my first one in the 1960's, I haven't owned any other brand and I was never disappointed until 2016. I was extremely happy with my 2004 and never would have given it up(it only had 48,000 mi.) if it wasn't totaled by another driver. At low speeds(30mph) the car hesitates as if I am continually touching the brake. At highway speed (60mph) the car does not hold the road and drifts, so I am constantly steering to hold the car steady. At my six month checkup they told me the car was performing normally and this was backed up by a case manager at Toyota headquarters. I have the temperature set at 66 degrees, but the air always seems too hot or too cold. I am short and I find the visibility poor. I am also over 65 so I am not a fan of having to program everything,but that's my problem, not the car's. Well, that's enough complaining for now. I have gotten used to the car so it's not as bad as when I first got it. One good thing is that the hesitation has stopped, but it took a year.

 First, there is a lot of things right with this car.  Fit and Finish are great, and there are no squeaks or rattles, and the price (with discounts) make it a better deal than a Honda.  If everything else after that was just average I would be satisfied, BUT.  The transmission is horrible.  The CVT works great in snowmobile, but does it belong in a car?  The engine is always revving to a high rpm range when you accelerate, and you wait for the transmission to catch up.  It is dangerous when you try to pass or merge from an on ramp.  This creates a lot of noise in the cabin.  I know now why the salesman went with me on the test drive, picked the route (city streets), and never stopped talking.  It was so I wouldn't notice how bad the noise or tranny was.  I took the car on a 100 mile trip to my parents house and my back hurt and I'm young, skinny, and a runner.  when you take a test drive leave the salesman at the dealer.  If they insist on going along, walk away.  Drive onto a highway, try merging with traffic, try to pass, and you won't buy it. The car is so slow and hesitant that it is almost dangerous.  I am going to trade this car on a Honda or Nissan next year, take the bath, and never look back .   What we need is a law that you can return the car in 48 hours and I bet that a lot of people will.

 My family has enjoyed the use of a 1998 Corolla that was purchased new. For the past eighteen years and more than 235,00 miles, problem free driving was ours with only routine scheduled maintenance. Two weeks ago we decided to purchase a new Corolla. We test drove the 2017 Corolla. The lack of comfort and the level of road noise in "that cabin", as compared to what we had become accustomed to in our 1998 model was no small matter. The noise especially, was so annoying that we decided to purchase a Camry after giving one a test drive that very same day. I had learned from the sales manager that a lot of owners of our generation Corolla had decided to upgrade to a new Camry instead of repeating their purchase of a new Corolla after test driving the new Corolla. The manager also mentioned that Toyota made certain design changes between the model years that probably contributed to the issues we had with the new Corolla.

 I read all the reviews before purchase and I am really happy with this car. It is a great value. The safety features that come standard are awesome. I like the radar-responsive cruise control for highway commuting, as well as the lane alert. The design of the car is such that there are very few blind spots. The seat is very comfortable, and it is just comfortable to drive. The turning radius is great and it is very responsive. I live in a city with hills and I love the hill assist feature--no rolling back! It is also great for city parking. The temperature control and sound system are wonderful. The gas mileage is fantastic! And this is a car which holds its value and comes with years of mainteance support, keeping the mainteance costs lows. The only two areas that could be improved are consistent with what the fancy car reviewers say: 1) it could go from 0 to 60 a little faster. That being said, it is consistent with other value cars that I have driven. No better but no worse. 2) The gear shifts in lower gears are a little louder than they could be. There are quieter cars out there. But overall this is car is a great value! I needed a car at a good price, that would hold its value, had great fuel efficiency, high safety standards and low maintenance costs. This car wins in all those categories. And it is fun to drive. The bonus for us is that the trunk is big enough to take the two kids camping, and the 60/40 split means one person can sit in the back seat and we can still haul longer items. Very pleased!

 Pros: Superb headlights with every even and bright illumination; tight fit and finish, very solid construction; low operating cost.  Cons: If you want to know what it feels like driving a coffin this is it! Very dark claustrophobic interior, poor outward visibility; noisy at speed; poor straight line stability; persistent and irritating understeer. Boring exterior design.  Some very hard and sharp plastic in the wrong spots that really will hurt you.

 We have it for about one month. So far we like it. As a family car it is great. The thing I like most is, the Adaptive cruise control and line departure alert. Also LED lights great when driving in dark

 I purchased a Corolla because of its reliability and good reputation, and I absolutely loved everything about this car at first. Unfortunately, my little dream car turned into a nightmare a mere 3 weeks after purchase. While stopped at a red light, an error message popped up on the dash saying "Charging System Malfunction" and I thought it was just an issue with my GPS, which was plugged into the outlet. I unplugged it and then another message popped up, this time saying "Oil pressure low" followed by messages saying to consult my owners manual and to take the car in for service. I was at an intersection and tried to turn onto the side road, only to find I had no accelerator power. I was slamming on the gas trying to move, and I was only able to do so because I was going downhill. Two good samaritans helped push me to safety, but to my horror I had NO brakes while the car was in neutral. I had to shift the car into park and lurch to a stop. One of the guys who helped suggested turning off and restarting the car, and sure enough the error messages went away. Still, I had it towed to the dealership, after dealing with Toyota Care and waiting 2 hours for the tow truck to get there. To condense this novel, the car threw no error codes when service checked it, and they're maintaining that nothing is wrong with the car. I've had to open a case with Toyota and I honestly can't believe what a horrible experience the whole thing has been. More effort has been put into attacking my credibility and denying what happened than it has in actually fixing what's obviously a major issue. For a brand new car to malfunction and impede my ability to control it is unacceptable, and I will not be driving it again. I really hope I was just sold a lemon and that no other owners experience these issues, but I will NEVER buy a Toyota again. They do not stand behind their products, and I highly recommend taking your business to a manufacturer that does.

 2013 Corolla LE w/ complete package. Cute, stylish & economical car. Was averaging around 30-34 mpg in town. Full tank gets you 400 miles + . Had steering wheel issue but the problem was fixed by dealership under warranty. Touch screen display not as responsive & had to push it a couple times. Entunes could use some improvement. The sound system is nice. Loved my sunroof. Sometimes it's much nicer to drive a smaller car because you can make quick u turns & fit into smaller parking areas. I really liked this car but it didn't have enough power for me. I didn't feel comfortable merging on to busy freeways/highways. Also space & leg room felt kind of tight. Other than that this is a great car.

Body Style, Lights, Sunroof, Sound System, Economical. Fun to drive in town. 

More leg room. Entunes touch display needs to be more responsive. More sturdy door handles, the plastic feels cheap & easy to break off. The sideview mirror control needs to be on the door panel not under the driver's side ac vent. A little more power under the hood. The electrical power steering could be more quiet while turning wheel, almost sounds like plastic rubbing on plastic.

 I just bought a 2013 Corolla S loaded. I am still in the high from it. I can tell you that thing is nice! It's not a boring ride at all. I have plenty of power for traffic maneuvering. I love how it has a luxury ride feel and how spaciousness the cabin is. I think it looks very cool and hip...especially at night.

Not plain like some others say. This thing is sharp on the outside also...very sporty. I really made a wise decision buying this. Not only is it cool and stylish, but it will last many years to come thanks to Toyota's quality. 

 I bought my car brand new in December 2013 for 21000. Never had any problem with this car before this I had a 328 xi which gave me a lot of problems. 

The car is small the back seats are not very comfortable but I love the driver seat. It is very comfortable. 

Navigation is excellent. 

MPG is excellent. 

For its class I will give it an A.

 Well I must say its my first new car purchase. I wanted a Honda but couldn't afford one that I like so I looked at this car and fell in love. The radio is awesome and I can ride comfortably. (I'm 6'2") I love the interior and its so smooth. Very quiet ride and gets me so far on a tank. I average 30 mpg in city driving. I used to own a 1997 4runner that got only 19!!

 Many people pan the Corolla's aging platform saying it has drum brakes etc. Well the Ford Focus has drum brakes and people think it is the best ever. I drove both cars, owned the new Dart and sold it, driven the Chevy Cruise and Noisy Mazda 3. Out of all the cars I did like the new Civic the most, however their price premium at dealer lots is not worth what you get on Civic Vs. Corolla. The new 2014 Corolla doesn't change much from the old and I didn't feel the need to wait for the newer model. The car is quiet, smooth, and build quality compared to the Dart isn't even close. The Focus was small on the inside compared to the Corolla and I would buy another Corolla in the future. 

Touch screen radio ( would like to see XM standard across the board if it is not for 2014). Cruise control which is a must have. And the tinted windows from the factory are nice. 

5-6 Speed auto transmission. Not a big fan of CVT even though the new Corolla except for L has 7 "shift points" it isn't the same as a traditional 5-6 speed unit. The four speed is o.k. but noise on the highway and full consumption would improve with just one or two more gears. Otherwise the 4 speed is reliable and smooth most of the time. 

 UPDATE

 I just purchased by 2007 Corolla LE and am quite impressed by the ride and the quality of the interior design. Smooth and janty ride with good pick up for an automatic.

Smooth and quiet ride, good fuel consumption, and nice styling, inside and out.

A little hard seeing out the rear window due to headrests in back seat.

 I bought my Toyota Corolla S 2007 in fall of 2006, and named her Libby. Truth be told, I have had prettier (aesthetically pleasing) cars, but no car has ever matched her reliability. She is now 216,000 miles old and still keeps on keeping on. When I got her, I was single and now 7 years later, we have a 7 year old daughter, 2 big dogs and Libby. My husband's truck is in the shop, and Libby has been our single vehicle off/on since 2008. In 2012-current, I've had a relatively long commute for my job, upwards of 45-60 min one way, so both ways everyday - Lots of driving. Libby is a true workhorse, and we ensure she is has regular maintenance (full synthetic oil changes, etc.). She's never, knock on wood, had any major repair. Right now she needs new shocks/struts (front/back) because we've lived in some very rural areas with lots of pot holes, dips and rough terrain. I'm on this website right now because we're searching for a bigger family vehicle, and will likely give Libby to a family friend while she job searches. I want to say the Toyota Corolla S is outstanding value, reliability and performance. It is not made for fast rides and showing off, but for a solid smaller sedan that excels in endurance and good quality!

 This is an impressive car in all respects. Exterior design is very attractive with the S package but I prefer it without the spoiler. Build quality is outstanding. Love the ride and handling and fuel mileage seems to meet spec--I've had my car for a week. It's quieter on the road than I thought it would be. Seats are comfortable but I have to agree with some other reviewers that the driver cushion is  a little short ( and I have short legs).I also agree with others who complain about needing a telescoping wheel. Horsepower is adequate. Amazing trunk size for a compact. I recently drove a Caliber and it cannot match the Corolla in any category. I'm glad I bought my Corolla.

 Bought this car one month ago.  I love it.  40 mpg overall avg with 25%city/75% hwy after 2000 miles.  Handles well and acceleration with the 5 speed is great.  The drivers seat takes some getting used to, not the most comfortable.  I am 5'll'' and 195lbs and the seat and front leg room are only adequate for my size.  I would not recommend this car to anyone above 6'2'' or 220lbs. The build quality is typically Toyota solid.  My backup car is a 93 Corolla that has 222,000miles on it and still runs great, so I am hoping the reliability will be the same with the 07.  Overall, its a well built car with excellent resale value, is great on gas, and has a history of bulletproof reliability.

Excellent gas mileage even at 80mph on the hwy.  Indigo ink is a very sharp color.  Stock CD system.  Reliability. 5-spd shifter.

Telescoping steering wheel, more front leg room, wider seat.  Rear disc brakes would be nice.

 I purchased my 2007 Toyota Corolla LE, 5-speed manual transmission car from a dealer in 2011 after parting ways with my '96 Honda Civic. I love this car. It has great get up and go and is super reliable. When I first got this car, I had a long highway commute each day and I got amazing gas mileage (36 MPG). Two years ago, I moved and my commute is now a 10 minute drive through town and even though my MPG dropped is is still averaging about 33 MPG. Not bad!

When I purchased the car it had 75,000 miles on it and since then I have nearly doubled that to 135,000 miles. It is still going strong. No issues. No super expensive repairs, just regular maintenance. This car is great! I had planned (and would love) to drive this car until it refuses to go anymore but our family acquired two large dogs so I am forced to seek out a larger vehicle. But I am sad to see my car go! I would buy it again in a heartbeat!

 At first, I was hesitant to buy such a compact car since I have driven nothing but SUV's. I sold my 2003 Suburbam about a month ago because of gas prices but when my brother told me about the Corolla I paid attention. I was looking for economical car anyways and went to test drive it. I was hooked as soon as I drove it.It rides smoothly, it has power and it is fun to drive. The features I got for the price, automatic transmission, power mirrors, CD, outside temperture and AC all for the outrageous price of $11,998.00 is a heck of a deal.

CD and AC

power windows standard for the entry model CE.

 I'm 65 years old and this Corolla just makes me like it more each time I drive it. In the city it runs around like a peppy little rabbit and on the highway it handles 75 mph speed limits like you are going 50. Fully loaded with 3 big adults and luggage and coolers (the trunk is larger than you think) cruising at 75 mph our gas mileage was 37 & 38 mpg. Less money and better equipped than all the other vehicles I tested. In a few years I may give this car to my grandson and then I may try a Camry. Anyway, buy one and start to enjoy it right now. 

Gas mileage & performance are great from this peppy 1.8L 4 cylinder. Quality of workmanship throughout the vehicle is vvery high standard.

 We have long been a Ford family however our last Fusion did not meet our expectations due to a lot of mechanical issues and poor fuel economy.

After test drives of the Ford Focus, Mazda 3 and Mazda 6, the Corolla was by far my favorite and has been a great car, both in performance and build quality.

So far we've averaged around 33 MPG in mostly city driving conditions which helps a lot with higher fuel prices!

This car looks great both inside and out and is fun to drive as well.

I look forward to giving this car to my son in about six years when he gets his license!

 I did my research.

I test drove several cars that I was reading rave reviews about - the Ford Focus, the Chevy Cruze, the Hyundai Elantra, the Nissan Sentra (which was worth considering, although darn it no telescoping steering wheel) and others that didn't get the rave reviews like the Honda Civic, which was overpriced I thought and not too impressive...

But I LOVED the Corolla S although you pay more for the S, and then I was almost in Camry territory (and same gas mileage believe it or not) but would have wanted the SE which is @5 more Gs than mine... but look at the Corolla.

I love it.

And I drove them all.

 If this helps in anyway, i had a new 2012 elantra which needless to say sucked. Yea all it has on this car is probably fuel economy and modern interior, but corolla hands down beats the elantra bc of the QUALITY. Toyotas are way more dependable and this car is sturdy and i love it. My old car for a brand new car actually had loose wire issues so i brought it to the dealer 4 times for numerous issues. ( getting stuck in park/ drive). Suspension sucks as well, car slips alot. Can barely go over 60 on the highway over few bumps with out noticing slips . So to me corolla s is AWESOME! No slips..great suspension, very comfortable to me and i dont have to worry which is the best peace of mind :)

maybe a more modern interior? but all in all its basic and that's really all you need.

 Bought the 2013 Corolla S.

I'll admit, it's not a Honda Accord or Toyota Camry.

If you want that, pay the extra $$$.

 I bought my corolla in 04 with only 9miles on it. As of July 2010 i have 242,000+ miles on it and it still drives great. My first clutch lasted up for about 188,000 miles before it was replaced. but its not something to be driven in the snow.

nothing, perfect car, would buy two?

 Bought the car used in Aug. '06 with only 3,300 miles on it from a private owner. Complaints are only minor: sun visor on driver's hits the rear-view mirror every time you pull it down and put it back up, it's annoying to have to readjust the mirror every time the sun is in your eyes. Other major complaint is driving position, I'm 6' tall and have to have the seat pushed all the way back for leg room, when I do that, the steering wheel is too far, since it does not telescope out( corrected on '09 and newer Corollas).

Outside temp.reading, task lights under the rear-view mirror, gas mileage (avg 32 to 34 MPG in mixed driving).

Driver position(for taller drivers) and sun visor that doesn't bump into rear-view mirror.

 At a steady speed, steady rpm between 2000 and 3000, on flat surface the rpm suddenly drops 200 to 500 rpm then jumps back up to cruise.

Does this every fifteen seconds or so almost all the time.

Dealer service says "Oh yeah, that's what Corollas do"

"There's no fix"

It's VERY annoying.

 On a recent 800 mile trip I got 36 miles to the gallon.

This is driving 70 -75 miles an hour.

The check engine light came on during this trip.

Code P0456 was the obd code and after looking it up found that Toyota has a technial bullentin for this issue and is related to the upgraded ECM module that was done on the car.

Has to be upgraded again apparently.

 Second time around Camry Hybrid owner, did over 60k miles in my 2010 all trouble free but was suffering a boredom attack so wanted to try the 2012 model, pretty much the same except for the little EVO button, press it in and be ready for some fun, even will give the V6 a run for its money and still do 40 MPG

 

MPG gauge

 If you are looking for a high mileage, sporty, reliable commuter, this is the car for you.  I went through 3 months of research on the Honda Civic, Mazda 3, and this car.  For the money, my needs as a 70 mile commuter a day, Toyota reliability.  The decision was easily made.  I love the look of the car looks much better than the smiley Mazda or the alien looking Civic.   Some notes to those that read other peoples review.  The suspension is sport tuned so the steering is a little light at first but with a little break in the steering is more weighted and is easy to drive.

Out of the three cars I mentioned road noise was lowest for this car which is a huge pet peeve of mine.  Excellent mpg ~ 40, very good build quality I had everything checked over by a mechanic, love the look, price.

The price I got for the car $16,995 for the S model, sunroof, etc. was great, but I wish body side molding came standard instead of accessory, the clock on the bottom is driver usable but could be positioned better.  

 Being that this is my first car, I don't have much experience on owing other cars, but I can tell you that I truly love this sporty Corolla S! The exterior looks sharp with the alloy wheels, fog lights, spoiler; it completes the package! The black cloth interior with the super bright and sporty gauges are awesome! The black interior is much better then the tan LE cloth. The only thing I don't really like is where the digital clock is located. It really makes you take your eyes off the road. The engine has enough pep to get you moving; not crazy fast nor super slow. I have also been averaging 35mpg! Can't beat that! I would reccomend this vehicle to anyone! A great and reliable Toyota! 

Sporty looks, fog lights, spoiler, sunroof, black cloth interior, heated outside mirrors, optitron gauges, large trunk, AUX input jack, MPG, quietness, large back seat, bullet proof reliabilty. 

 This car maintains great 30+ MPG even with a full load of groceries, kids and a dog (don't ask how we do do it).

Oil changes are the only maintenance we have done to it since we bought in 2010.

Very reliable.

MPG, Reliability, Great in the Snow (with the right tires)

Power windows and locks to the base model.

 I bought this car 3 years ago with 193,000 for 500 dollars. I know crazy. It has never left me walking. I have done minor repairs, new distributor cap and new plugs and wires, new tires and battery. I drive this car 120 miles a day 4 days a week sometimes more. It now has 239,500 miles and I hope it keeps on going. It truly is a gem and I got a steal. It made my 500$ back long ago! I want another one! I drive a 4 door Dodge 3/4 ton diesel so tjis car saves me so much money running back and forth to work! Sometimes I'd really Rather be in my Toyota than that Dodge!

Gas mileage, reliability

Paint has white rust but it is 13 years old.

 Happy that my Corolla has 341000 miles and runs well. I absolutely love my Corolla!

 I bought this car two years ago with 227,000 miles on it ! Yes I know , a lot lol . This car is very durable . Only repairs I've made were the brake lights , tires , and struts . My car now has 266,000 miles on it and it and still runs like new !

 I bought this car with about 100,000 miles and put another 20,000 on myself until I wrecked it this year.  This was a car that I could always count on to start.  Mechanically, it had very few problems.  The struts went out, the interior door handles broke, the radio never worked and the fasteners for the bumper guard came apart so if you drove at high speeds the bumper guard would sometimes come loose.  Overall I would reccomend these cars as a good A to B vehicle, but in the future I will never own one again if I can afford something nicer.  It was never a joy to drive, handled poorly, no pick-up on acceleration and starts vibrating pretty bad around 70 mph.   

Reliability 

Higher quality parts where plastic was used, better stereo, better acceleration

 My 1996 Toyota Corolla is the best car I have ever owned. Front to back, inside and out, I just love everything about it. Toyota sure knew what they were doing when they made this car. They equipped it with the convenience of keyless remote entry, an alarm system, and anti theft system. The highly efficient 4 cylinder is almost self-maintained, and if necessary, very easily repaired. There's plenty of room inside for the passengers to ride comfortably, large enough trunk space for regular cargo storage. It handles so well, it seems to just float down the highway. This car has no problems holding it's own out on the road. And at 40 miles per gallon, who would ever want to drive anything else?

Well it would be hard to choose a favorite feature. Between the leg room, head room, quiet cabin, handling and suspension, every feature is my favorite. But if I had to narrow it down to one, I would have to say the fuel efficiency of this car is 
 had this reliable and peppy wagon for ten years; no major defects or problems; easy to park; good visibility; good loading capacity; good leg room in back; upholstery wears well; std stereo mediocre; gas mileage appx 26-28 city; 28-30 freeway; would have bought another but don't make anymore; driver's seat and headrest are comfortable for my neck and frame (5'6").

Not a fancy car; just A - B; but like visibility; backing up is easy; easy to maneuver; tight turning radius; great handling with right tires; pickup ability is underestimated by other vehicles on road

Never felt the car needed improvement

 This was the best car I've had in quote 

a while.  It ran better at 60K miles 

 I purchased this vehicle off the lot brand new, never had any major problems just regular maintenance and general upkeep changed a few batteries, timing belt after 100K and struts on the 150k mark it needed it. When it was paid off I just used the money I saved over a year and spruced up the engine. This car has become my favorite and of course well cared for still classy (did I mention Paid for). I started sprucing it up now everyone wants to buy it - sorry no sale here. I tricked it now it's completely mine. Have to thank TRD Japan for its good supplies in the Asian Market for this vehicle. USA did not supply the 93 to 96 corollas well... stylish gas saver and good ole lil' car 

I placed most comfort features myself by upgrading the dashboard dvd, mp3, gps and all in dash very  nice.  I even have massaging seats.

everything I did to it...   make it a Corolla Altis...

 This is the second one I owned and I must say I love them.

100% reliable. Always starts.

 I bought this car new and drove it for the past 13 years without any major problems. I replaced the tires and breaks but nothing else. Was planning to drive this car until it wouldn't run anymore but it was totalled in an accident. Luckily I wasn't seriously hurt because of the way the Toyotas are built. I was on the highway when the accident happened so it could have been much worse than it was. The body of the vehicle took a beating in the accident but nothing came through to the inside of the car. Very safe car!

Excellent gas mileage! I used to get over 300 miles to a tank of gas!

I always had some trouble with the defrost in the car, seemed like my windows always stayed fogged up in the rain. I'm sure that's not a problem with the new Corollas.

 The most practical and reliable car I've ever owned.  In 13 years/153,000 miles, in addition to oil changes/fluid checks, the only repairs I've had are: water pump replacement, timing belt replacement, front and rear brakes, and dash board light replacement.  I love the manual locks and doors... less to break.

Plain, simple, functional, reliable.  The station wagon has ample space.

 I wrote a review in 2007 about how great this car is and it is just as terrific now.  What a totally reliable vehicle, how do I get another one just like it, maybe I won't ever need another one? I have 187,000 miles on it now.  I think the body style looks current and the seats/mats are better quality than the 2009 Civic. Plenty of acceleration for me, excellent mileage, great A/C and defrost, perfect usable size. I can't believe the resale value now is only $1,000, it is worth so much more.

size and reliability

larger back seating and less road noise

 I love this car. It has loads of power for a 1.8 liter 4 cyl engine. Nice size. Can park anywhere easily. All my components work, ac heater Windows everything. Little rust at bottom my car has 701,456 miles. I also bought it new and I bought same size 14 inch rims for more winter traction. Overall it amazing uhhhh mazing. I hate my Camry

everything built so strong better than my 09 camry (i cant trust my camry)

 This corolla is almost eleven years old 

and has 185k miles and runs like a top. 

Only routine maintenance and an 

alternator for repairs over the time 

I've own the car.  Purchased new, one 

 I had it for six years and had only one problem with it. One of the the automatic window stopped working, but repair was unexpensive. The car in general is very reliable. While having it, I didn't care too much about gas prices going up because it is an economy car. I recommend this car. 

gas mileage, reliability. Easy to sell. 

I don't like recent exterior design of the Corolla, and it is only reason that I didn't buy a new Toyota Corolla again after I sold mine.

 We've used this car as a daily commuter and grocery getter for over seven years and it still hangs tough. The check engine light stays on for no reason that the mechanic can find, but it still runs well. One day we'll move up to something more modern, but for basic, economical transportation it will still be running around town when today's Dodge Calibers and Nissan Versas are toast. Those who survive the apocalypse will be driving Corollas.

Cheap to run, good on gas and not terribly embarrassing to be seen in. The trunk is pretty roomy and you can park it anywhere.

 owned my corolla for five yrs. other than my own idiocies the car has never given me any problems. i've done 3 hour one way trips to and from i went every weekend for about a whole year mostly going over 80 ive gone over a 100 half way though the trips twice i love my car to death 317745 and going strong

the miles on it

Other than oil changes, tuneups and new tires, I've only replaced the brakes - and that was at 98,500 miles!  The mechanic didn't believe they were original.  I've yet to replace a muffler or anything else!  What a well built car!

It never needs repairs!

 Would like to see more features for the money. But it is fun to drive and is easy for my wife who has a disability to get in and out of

fun to drive

more options for money.

 I had the stripper model.  3 speed transmission, 33mpg hwy.  The performance is fairly good, but I would steer away from the 3 speed trans.  This car handles very nicely.  I'm a nutzoid driver who makes the passengers eat the side windows when I take the curves.  The ride is fairly quiet and fairly smooth.  Reliability is already spoken for and that is, get your basic service, and it will survive a nuclear blast.  Not to mention I rolled this car a few times on the fwy going 60, and it held up VERY well.  Definitely a safe car to drive.  I came out without a SCRATCH.

Smooth ride and handling ability.  I have a mazda protege now and it takes corners better, but it's also a smaller car (go figure).  Not to mention a HUGE trunk.  Plenty of space for this 6'1" driver.

 Cars being my hobby, I tested out the 

many models competing in this class. 

Although the Civic came the closest, it 

was a lot more expensive, the interior 

seemed a bit cheaper, and it was 

 We got this little toyota 99 le 4 door from a party that had got it from a salvage yard. At 72k miles it got hit on the pass. quarter panel, trunk, and rear bumper. It was repaired, you can't even tell it was ever in an accident. It drives like a dream, and don't have to tell you that 30+ mpg is excellent these days. So not only is it a great car, but it can take a hit. Esp. since it has side and front air bags in the le model...Go for it, Toyota !!1

gas mileage, looks, sun/moon roof/ air condition.It Has Style

more leg room in rear. 

 This bare-bones car runs and runs. Although the styling, road noise, and freeway handling leave a lot to be desired; the fuel economy, peppy street performance, and reliability are excellent. 

Red color, cruise control, and reliability.

 Well, I owned a 99 corolla from new until 2005 when I sold it for 4 grand. At that point it had a little over 315K miles on it, didn't burn oil, no lights, and everything that was in it worked. 

I had to replace oil every 3k miles, but that is about it. It handled better then a civic, got better mpg, and was faster off the line, not to mention cheaper to insure. 

I would love to get my hands on a 99 corolla with a blown motor with the options I had in mine, it is a perfect candidate for a 2zz swap. 

I have owned over 18 cars in my life, and nothing on the planet will take a beating like a Toyota. Not Honda, and nothing American can come close. 

Love my Genesis so far

Wont find a better car for the price

best kept secret who makes this

Great Value, Great Fun

Great Great Value 

Acura TLX Better Than Lexus ES 350!

My Wife's Car

Great Car -loaded

 A greatly improve version of the TL /

Best car for the $$$

This is not a sports car, it's a luxury car

Upgrade from 2013 ILX

Acura has gone back to their roots!!

Acura's Sedans are Back!

Acura nailed it with the TLX

Love this new car!

Enjoying my new TLX

Awesome car! 2015 TLX SH-AWD

Smooth Operator

My 3rd Acura

Love this car!

Love this car

overall good car ruined by crappy 9speed tranny

FUN!

Awesome for Foursome

A Definite Head Turner

This car blew me away!

An outstanding sports car

SUV on steriods!

Update: Just what I wanted

BMW X6 X-cellent

Flashy headache

More fun, better looking than the X5

My favorite vehicle to drive by far!

Bavaria rules

My X6M

A fun vehicle to drive

5.0 vs 3.5 no comparison

BMW X6 a Hit !

Just what I wanted!

Love the Ride

Love Ford C-Max Energi plugin

Best hybrid we've had

CMax Energi 171,000 miles

Do your homework before purchasing

Best if used around town

Still going strong!

Just got mine 

Good drivetrain but electronics ruined it

Beats a Prius

After a year part broke back ordered

charge port cover flaw!!!!!  Pop open door?

Alternative to Prii and Leaf

Headlights burn out

Environmental Bliss

Fast, economical and practical

Zero gas weekly commuting

Great car

New to Ford, 2nd Hybrid, Nice but 

I really like this thing

2013 C-Max Energi SEL with all the goodies.

CMax energi 86mpg

LOVE LOVE LOVE my C-Max Energi

Not your typical daily commuter

Great Car, Much Better Than Hoped For

2014 Energi, What a Techno Marvel: Welcome to 2020

Fun to drive with fantastic mileage

An SUV Lover's Hybrid-Plugin

Loved this car until one day...

Diesel to Electric

Impresive

Surprisingly good vehicle

Too nice of a car not to sell in higher volumes

Why doesn't Ford advertise the C-Max more?

Give it a Test Drive, 2015 Ford C-Max Energi

I LOVE my new Ford CMax Energi!

The Beast

2015 Ford C-Max Emergi

Cathy's Max

Happy

Great Commuter car with questionable interior qual

not a hot rod

Huge Step Backwards

Acura Beats to a Different Drum! And I Like It!

RLXer

Wish I had a better RLX story

The best full size SUV

'04 Denali XL

Great Ride

Yukon XL is better then I ever guessed..

Nice truck, GPS is abysmal

WOW!  Lovin' my Yukon XL

Typical American Car

Great vehicle ...

2001 Xukon XL

The Big Red Wagon

YukonXL

My Sixth One

Think Twice About GMC

Beware of front differential bearings

Yukon XL - Best value for the Money

GMC Yukon XL Denali

Awesome Vehicle

Great for my bad back!

Satisfied Customer

Big and Beautiful

Great SUV...If you like large SUVs

Best Big SUV

This is one Gas-Burning Dinasour!

I Love It!

Yukon XL

2005 Yukon

3/4 Ton Yukon XL - Rock Solid vehicle

I wish I had came to edmunds and looked for these reviews before I bought this huge waste of money. 

Wow!

No better full size SUV

It Does What They Say It Will Do

'07 Yukon XL 

Yukon XL Denali a Winner!

Leary

My 4th GMC

Very very close to a homerun for GMC

Fun to drive

2007's are using oil! Don't buy one!

I Love This Truck!

Best full size SUV

Well equipped with some "Bling"

Impressed! And still Impressed!

Do Not Buy!!!

XL for empty nesters

2016 GMC Yukon XL,

Love It So Far

2015 Yukon Denali

Stay away from this vehicle.

Suving

Big is better

suburban/yukon

Too many manufacturing Bugs.


A great family vehicle

Yukon XL slt

Best SUV you'll ever own !!!

Large comfortable SUV

Great Size and Power

Love It!

King of full size SUV's!

An okay SUV

Unexplained Sudden Acceleration

Love it

Fun to Drive

Great driving vehicle

Initial Review

Oustanding purchase 2010 Yukon XL

Traded 2006 760LI

Adjustable back seats

2011 Yukon XL Denali the BEST!!

Great for a Big SUV, Still Prefer a Minivan

Awesome car

3 Years in a Yukon and I loved it!

Comforts of home

Tired of crossovers

Still the "Gold Standard"

Great 4WD

Not luxury, but serves a purpose

Lemon?

Comfort, Style & Power. Priced Right

I think that I have a lemon and I am so sad.

Let's Do It Again!

Great Family car

Great Ride Cheap Interior

Great to Drive

Amazing!

Awesome truck but.

Big Powerful and Roomy

Awesome all around SUV

Great Yukon in Wisconsin 

Excellent

Great Truck, but...

Gets better more we drive it

Oil Consumption & loss of pressure - Recall - Don't Buy

Nice Engine!

DENALI

lookin to upgrade

2007 GMC Yukon XL

Prepare for service!

Great Fun Car!

Another oil burner

Traded Expedition and love this SUV!

GMC XL Denali

Rattle Trap

Practical use in rough country

Yukon XL Denali, second to none!

'05 Denali

Vortec 6.0 is AMAZING! LOVE This Denali XL.

Great vehicle for the SUV Enthusiast.

2005 Denali Yukon XL

A manly vehicle.

Its an ok vehicle

Great ride

Great truck

Diluted Denali

Denali

comfy and safe land yacht

She won't die!

Happy Yukon XL Owner

Not bad for 10 year old tech.

Ultimate SUV

Great tow vehicle

Great vehicle

WE LOVE IT!!!!

Nothing Compares

Overpriced POS

Go to ergonomics school GMC

Dream vehicle--(:-)

Poor reliability - poor service

Too many problems for $40,000+ 

my gmc

Me and my big truck

Very good car

Fun in the Sun !!!!!!!!

Yukon ZL - 1500

Towing Ability

2002 Denali

Too many kids

Yukon XL experience

Great  SUV

Better than I could have ever imagined

Great truck!

Worst car so far

2002

Happy Owner!

Best full size ever

Beast of Burden

BEST SUV ON THE MARKET

like/love it

GOOD SUV, BUT LACKS FINE TUNNING

Fill it up with Kids!

Totally decent, what we wanted

The No. 1 SUV: GMC Yukon XL !!!!!

Mirrors

Nice but not Nice Enough

great S U V

Nice Ride!

Buyer Beware!

bignfun suv

So long GMC!

Buy One!

GOOD BUY

After 7.5 years 

I can't part with it!

Transmission trouble

Buyer Beware

Worse MPG than my "91 Suburban

Endless Major Repairs

Solid Purchase

Featured obsolescence

Lots of Repairs

Suburban's the only way to go

Great Vehicle

Loyal Yukon Owner

44000 Miles of Fun

2000 Yukon XL

Love My Yukon

Real Happy after 3 years!

DENALI Review

3 strikes and now what?

Adequate for my needs

My Last GM product

Great Truck

Solid Machine

Cool

unhappy

So Far, So Good

Money pit

I LOVE MY DENALI

Greatest car I have owned!

My Yukon XL Denali-disappointment

Piece of Junk

Denali - Utilitarian Comfort

Lemon XL

Best Large SUV in it's class

Denali XL

EXCELLENT X 10

2nd GM car And love It!

2006 - GMC Yukon XL

now the engine... when does it end money pit

Love my truck!

Fully Loaded Yukon XL Denali

Pros and Cons

Worst SUV ever

Let's Ride

Could be Better

Truck for the family

Bad design or bad quality?

RLX Rattles down the road since purchase- no solution

acura finally got it right!

RLX-- love this car

nice car

my story

Great suv

'01 YukonXL

2001 Yukon XL in NJ

Ultimate Family Ride

Overall, great car but it does have some problems

Really Good Car

Better Than It Looks

Drives Great "IF" You Can Get it to Start!

Almost Perfect

LOVE THIS CAR but one complaint

Do I love it?

Great Car

I still love it

Sweet........

10 years of driving pleasure

Disappointed

Disappointed in Quality

Would be great if I could steer it!

2003 Z4 3.0 manual Long-term driver

Can do

Bad ass 3.0

Needs improvement

Fun car to drive. Still gets lots of attention

Plus and Minus

Get out while  you can

The Good and the Bad

Gets Better Every Day!

One More Time

Almost there!

One Month Review

great car

Eats Boxters

Truely AMAZING!

Fun Car

Smile on my face

Z4ME

Wow

My car

1st Vehicle in 15 years

Amazing vehicle

Apple CarPlay feature is a lie!

A new company with a great car

A lot of car for the money.

Goodbye Lexus, Hello Genesis?  What?  Yes!

2017 Genesis G80 - POW!

Extremely  Dissappointed

YOUR WARNING HAS ARRIVED!!!

The Audi you'll remember

Mean design, not so mean performance

Worth it to buy but not for racing

Audi TT

Best Bang for the Buck!

Fun little car

Amazing Ride - When it's not in the shop

i'd buy one again

Fun to drive

Owner

nice, but needs fixin'

Really Nice Automobile.

Sports car station wagon

This is whats up

2003 Audi TT convertible

Convertible Fanatic

I Love my TT

jon

Buyer Beware

total quatro fun

Beautiful Car... But Lots of Problems

TT -- a Great Car that has Issues

Audi TT problems (car is not a turbo)

Love It, Can't leave it. 

New to me

Audi TT

Best car purchase I've ever made!

2003 Audi TT roadster

TT after 3 months

Life is good in my little TT

Believer

Pers[ective audi

I love this car!!

my baby

Audi Excellence

Most Exciting Car I have ever owned

LOVE ALL AUDIS

A perfect match with DSG and V6!

Love my car baby!

I made the switch... you should too!

Another Quattro for me

Cannot be Duplicated

Fun Little Car

pretty cool

Awesome Audi

GREAT CAR!!!

Great Car

drive it all day all year

TT is a GREAT car

Exceeded my expecations.

2005 Audi TT, Loving it!

Fun to drive by excellence

Fun to Drive

Fun to Drive, Expensive to Repair

Hot car

I love my roadster

It's a tough act to follow

Awesome Performance Lots of Fun

Still a head turner--

Fabulous car

2005 Audi TT - Love It

The Best 

UNBELIEVABLE

It's a blast.

Fun Car - Very Poor Reliability

Good looking car

Audi TT my dream car!  2001

Retirement gift

Fun while it lasted

A beautiful speed machine!

Fun, disappointing reliability

The Best

Avoid this car.

Awesome Ride

2005 Audi TT 

TT Envy

My third TT is my "best buy."

Tony's toy

Nightmare to own

Fun car - lots of problems!

Disappointing & Unreliable

Friends Don't Let Friends Buy Audi

Turbo Charged Ride

Thoroughly Fantastic

Great little car most new cars still can't compete

A car with problems, but if you can live with them

I love my Audi TT

Looks great on the flatbed.

my dream car...

Already 12 service visits?

Get the extended warranty

Looks good, not so great

Fun car to drive

Great Car

What a car!

Best used car I have ever purchased

Lemon or not?

Excelent

8 years & counting

Look at everyone stare as you go by

Run, don't walk, away from this car

Want a sports car? Go buy a greyhound.

tt roadster -- quatro

Don't buy a TT

Awesome find.

225QC

Best in it's class

Great fun drive

Great  Roadster..

Love the Car

I'm going to throw this car...

great

better than my Pontiac GTP in every way

Lemon Law the TT

audi 3.2 coupe

Auditt

TT Dolomite

my TT

My bomber

Really Disapointed

Audi TT 3.2L DSG is a different TT

Art in Motion

What a blast!

A Joy Every Time I Get In It

Disapointed with Audi TT

Pick of the litter of the MK1 TT's 

A even more fun car with DSG and V6

My Audi is 12 Years Old !

My 2014 Audi TTS

Turning heads and thumbs up

Not all sports cars are made for summer.

Love this car!

Awesome Vehicle

Happy

Upgraded to this from the original MK1...

Very Pleased, Came From Porsche, BMW, MB

wow...

This car is ...

TTS Roadster 2010 - owned for 2 months

TTS

Can't go wrong with the TTS!!!

Way better than a Prius!

C max

C-max Van turning

Meg-A-Watt--an awesome little car!

A TTS finally worthy of Sports Car status

Ready for the track...

There's always a glitch

Love my energi

Great City Car

cmaxenergo

So much more than I expcted!

Fun to drive

Great comfort, pickup compared to Prius

528 miles per gallon.

On my 2nd engi.

Don't want my car/ Car is back after reprogramming

Is FORD asleep

Really enjoyable for a hybrid

C-Max Energi

Quiet and strong, with rare visits to refuel.

Ford Should Promote this Car More Widely!

2016 Ford C-Max Energi SEL

Excellent for an enthusiast

Holy Cow is it fast!!!!!!

The Lower Cost Cayman S

Drop dead gorgeous and a fun ride!

Cool winter driving & hot for the summer

Nothing drives like an Audi!

Fun to drive factor!

Excessive Fun

Highly Recommended!

Wife says: "Best Car Ever"

Stop thinking and buy it!

Sloppy transmission

I won this baby and WOW!

Beautiful car, some maintenance issues

A True Joy to Own

Outstanding

Early review at 1240 miles

Lovin' it

Not a "me too" SUV

Real Excitement

Best Lux Crossover Out There

In A Class By Itself

What was I thinking?

Awesome Performance... Awesome Looks

BWM X6 35i

Great Whatever it is

Great All-Around Vehicle

Best Bimmer Ever

Life Saver

Best car...

Great Car - Eats Gas

X6 3.5i and 5.0i Sport

1 in a 1000

Worked fine until I took it in for its 5000 mile servcing.

Great Manual Crazy Fast Car

35i X6 

Amazing 2010 X6 5.0

not perfect

Horrible Engine in these cars.

One of the best BMWs yet

Beauty and the Beast

BMW X6 2010 Sound issue

Love Ride

Awesome Combination

Awesome car 

Love my new BMW!

X 6 3.5 Sport Package

2012 BMW X6 50i

X6M Great Vehicle!

You better get the extended warranty

My snow car is a fun car

It makes sense to me

Projection of unique characteristic

Absolutely amazing

Cargasm...

Addicting to drive

Amazing Car

A Great Decision

It makes sense continued...

Great ride, great look great everything.

It's Always Something!!

It ain't the "Leave it to Beaver" family car

Begs to be Driven

Incredibly fun

A Big Mistake

Ignore the reviewers! 

Unique and Fun

Big performance in compact package

The best in fun per dollar

Lil' Blue Thing

First Time Audi Owner!

New England Tourer

New generation Audi

Sophisticated Sport

Great Package!

2008 2.0 TT

Everything I wanted and expected

Best Car I Have EVER Driven

One year anniversary

The TT is a good car.

Squeaky brakes

Fun, fun, fun car

Too Topless

Audi TT 2008

Excellent, any way you look at it!

My fourth--and favorite--TT

No Regrets!  Audi for life

My sixth TT and the best yet

Awesome Audi TT

Audi TT Convertible May 2016  Is Good!

Bad rap on design

Highly recommend!

Only 2.0L but still a lot of fun

rear ended after owning car for 4 days

vroom

Awesome 

Beware of Z4 deficiencies!

3rd BMW Z car

Not a Suitable 5-series Replacement

2007 BMW Z4

Roadster

Design getting better with age

Instant, incredible fun

2007 BMW Z4 3.0si 6 spd manual 

Worth looking into

Great so far

2009 z4 review

Awesome

Great CPO purchase

Great Roadster

WOW My First BMW

Simply Amazing

Superb automobile

The best I ever had

Dream, or Nightmare?

SO much fun!!

BEST OF BOTH WORLDS: Eye Catcher Plus!

Best car yet

BMW Z4 instant classic

What A Ride!!!

2007 BMW Z4 3.0si

Good Looks, Terrible Ride

Want to have fun? Drive this!

A True Sports Car

Love my car

Most enjoyable car I've owned

07 BMW Z4 si

What a car!

What I expected

I love it sooooo much

THE Coupe

Fun car

Donkey Cart

Own one and you'll understand!

Only a Step Away

Z4

My new BMW  Z4 Roadster

Nice toy

Z4 truly a great car

Fun Fun Fun

Perfect after changing tires

My 2008 Z4 convertible

Certified Fun

I call it my little zippy for a reason!

This is one great redo

To-Much-Fun

Z4 Coupe - a car to love

Z4 Coupe -  A True Sports Car from BMW

Fun -- Fun -- Fun -- in the Sun

One is not enough

Quality with Flaws

Totally Fun Driving

Nothing more fun to drive

Fun car

3.0i Sport Package - dream car!

Dream Car

Great Roadster

Z4 Coupe 3.0si... so far, so good

Unreal!

Electrical/Computer Problems

Great Weekend Toy

Landshark; Rules the road

Fun and practicality in one package

So much fun for so little money!

Z is good for me

Z4

Blast

Z4 SMG

Love this car!

excessive noise

BMW sales guy

Z4

Ratings on Z4 should be much higher!

Z 4  FLORIDA FUN

Beautilful to look at but...

Fun, fun, fun - but a bit impractical

Very Impressive Indeed!

Car Love

As good as it gets

What more do you want!

A great car even after 6 Years

Slammin' style and great to own!

Z4 Review

What a snow ride

Too many problems

Z4 is a blast!

My First BMW

WOW

The Civilized (and legal) go-kart

Two years plus

Driving has never been this fun!!

Performance, economy & reliability!

Jim's viewpoint.

BMW just like Bob Marley& Jerry Garcia.

High performance fun to drive

One classy beast

X6M Best Vehicle ever owned

This car is a beast..period!

BMW X6 Disappointment

2013 BMW X6 3.0

Great Car - Problems with Active Drive

A pleasure to drive

BMW Owner since 2000.

2016 x6

You have to live with it to really know...

This car over delivered

My first X6!

2016 BMW X6 xDrive 35i Carbon Black Metallic

This "Ain't" Your Daddy's SUV!

Acura LX

Careful what you wish for

Awesome car - Highly recommend!!!!

Regrets and more regrets

Great car great price

Under Rated

Vibration

Loving it so far

Bang For The Buck

TLX is the perfect blend of features and cost for

Transmission negates the V6

Great Car

Luxury Sedan for everyday use!

stay away from RLX

Shifty

RLX - no 4 x X

very disapointed

My Gas Mileage Experience

2010 GMC Terrain

2011 gmc terrain sle-1 AWD

Lemon

Poor Gas Mileage

The V6 is the way to go.

700 miles ... Love it so far!

Snazzy SUV!

Absolute garbage

Big lemon 

87,000 miles and switching

Reliable but junk!

piece of garbage

V6 with AWD

Junk Parts in Car and Junk Manufacture

Well Satisfied

I love my 2012 Terrain SLT-1 AWD

Excellent Car...but, tranny problems

BAD BAD FUEL ECONOMY

Junk

TERRAIN again! 2010 and 2013...

rough,rider

noisy

Noisy

It's More Than You Think. Maybe.

Regretful buy

Great little car

THIS WILL BE MY CAR SOON!!

Great deal

4cyl AWD

Superbly engineered.

V6 AWD

GMC Terrain SLE-2

Terrain 2014 FWD 2.4engine SLE-2

great car

Excellent alternative to sedan for 5 

Too Hot, Too Bad

Never Buy American Made Again

Love the sunroof

Should have kept my ford

2016 gmc sierra denali 3500

I love my truck

Had every brand of truck. This is the BEST!

Loving this ride!

Love it, but....

Issues all the time!

Our Forever Vehicle 

My second Terrain, and I still love it!

LOVE IT except for the transmission jerks.

Great Little Truck!

Message board..engine light issues...no solution

Great Car!

Don't buy a 2012-2014 Terrain

Great Ride

Love this dependable vehicle

High Quality SUV

It looks gorgeous and has "perks"...

Perfect SUV for me!

Will not buy American again

Engine Powered down 3 times

Engine Problems

Use oil and fuel, over and over and over and over

AWD 4 CYL 2014

BEWARE!!! STAY CLEAR OF THIS VEHICLE!!

Terrain Problems

I Love It!!!

Transmission Jerks when putting it in reverse

Four cylinder engine 

The new diesel is "wow"

GMC Sierra 

New 2007 3500 HD

broke down on the first day

Don't need a Diesel !

Worst truck I have owned so far.

GREAT TRUCK!!!

update on repairs

Great Car

Bad First Car Experience

Malfunctions - timing change, noise, oil pouring out

Lemon in the making

Most unreliable vehicle i've ever owned

Expensive Peice Of Junk

Finally a vehicle tall people can enjoy :)

This car is not worth buying.

30k miles blown transmission

cute car but unreliable with ongoing issues

SAVE YOUR MONEY & SANITY!

Run from this car!!

A Christmas Gift that wasn't worth giving!

Transmission is crap

Worse vehicle I have ever had!

A BIG MISTAKE

Save a life and stay away from GMC Terrains

GMC Terrain - Problem Child

Where is the gas mileage?

Not what GMC promises

Very Noisy Engine - Rattling Sound on Start Up - G

Gas Mileage

Happy Owner

Can't cover any terrain since in shop.

Save a life!  Stay away!

Best car I ever owned  - this is my second one!!

Oil burner! Avoid!

MY THIRD TERRAIN!

1st Terrain - could not be happier

GMC Lover

Very nice car for traveling and local driving

2015 Terrain denali AWD it is good for off road too

If it wasn't so noisy!

Gmc terrain....just what we needed

Designed for 6'2" guys

Simply put. I got rid of that piece of junk.

Love my new Terrain!!!

Disappointing p

Small SUV that acts like a small SUV

I Like The GMC Terrain

Terrain 2015

Love my Terrain

Yukon

1999 GMC Yukon SLT 4WD 

Denali

Denali

Back to Ford

Long term plans have changed!

Love my Yukon. Buy American -- the best

Yukon problems

I Love This SUV!

My Denali

Part of the family

MY Denali

Big Bruiser

SMMMOOOOOOTTTTHHHHHH

Love the 'KON

Love it!

Good SUV

aw's denali review

Anther Goood Yukon

FROM EXPY TO YUKON

02 Yukon

FUN SUV

My Yukon

Excellent S.U.V.

Excellent power

Great Vehicle

Best truck for the money! 

Nice Truck

Great Truck!

Denali is a great vehicle

Happy

Love it!

Yukons are Great !

Yukon is it

BUYER BEWARE

Not Bad At All !!

Great Ride

GMC Yukon

Tops

RZOPIONION

Excellent Value

Great Rig

Too old for an SUV

Excellent truck

Not Bad for 125,000 miles

Clunk

Patriot Blue Yukon

I'm In Love with My Yukon

Best SUV on Market for the $

What happened?

GMC = great motor car

Great 

Great truck

GMC Yukon XL Summit White 2002

Yukon, Truly Professional Grade

Yukon for Life

The best of the best

2K Yukon, as good as it gets

Luv it

Great SUV

lovin the new ride

The best vehicle I have ever owned!

2001 Denali

GMC Denali

Run Denali Run

Engine Problems

CDB's Yukon

1999 Yukon

99 Yukon

reliable and quality

6 years later and i still love it

5.3 L GMC Yukon SLT

$37000 Lemon

Tried American, but back with import

Best car I own

buy a yukon!!

99 GMC Yukon SLE

Great Truck

Great SUV

Mr. Denali

First time SUV owner.

my slt

1998 GMC Yukon

AWSOME

mvsuv

Love My SUV

98 Yukon SLT

Reliable and Indestructible

Gotta Respect the Yukon

Great SUV - 4WD Yukon

Solid truck

Great Truck

Drive It Till the Wheels Fall Off

God Bless Them Yukons

I love it anyway

hate to say Good-bye

!996 Yukon

Disappointed Owner

orginal owner/wish they still offered 2dr Z71 model!

Like my Yuke

Great SUV

Smiling GMC Yukon Owner

The Best

Not hAPPY

1997 yukon sle

My 4WD Livingroom!

Not bad, but some major mechanical issues.....

Hire Power

yuka-97

It is OK but sometimes you will hate it.

Great truck!

Great Vehicle

Great SUV!

Snow Buster

Very good SUV

Love the truck. Hate the ABS

Great Vehicle

Great on the Open Road

425,000 miles and still going

Why doesn't GMC make a Yukon 2dr

A truck you don't want to get rid of

Great SUV..never lets me down.

Yukon GT

Ryan's Review

356,000 kms and still going

Rich's Youkon

Takes a lick'n & keeps on tick'n

Good truck

Intake Manifold Gasket

A Reliable Performer

Don's review

1993 GMC Yukon SLE

best vehicle I ever purchased

'93 SLE 2 door / 4x4

Love my 2015 Terrain!

Very good vehicle - most of the time

Great SUV GOOD ok mpg

Terrain talk

I have the Denali AWD with the 6 cylinder

1995 Yukon

Yukon Pride

It Won't Die

Takes a lickin and keeps on tickin

Very Reliable

Great all around vehicle

Second Terrian and loving it

Squealing after 6000 miles

11 Months Dead Battery

Great buy

Many great characteristics but a few annoying ones

Rating GMC Yukon XL Denali

Denali

Carried-over suv

2003 GMC Yukon SLT 5.3L

Near Perfect

So Far So Good

Perfect SUV

rugged practicality

Great vehicle

what i like about the denali

CD Player Awful

2006 Yukon

Great vehicle

Love this truck

Good Buy / Low resale

Denali.....A step above all others

Best SUV Out There!

2006 Yukon Denali

Denali king of the road

Corvette SUV

What a Ride!

My 2006 Yukon

Great SUV for safety and style

Love this truck

2006 Yukon Update

Great ride and looks super!

Yukon SLE 4.8

Yukon

2 years with 2008  Denali

2008 Denali AWD

Be Cautious

GMC 2015 Denali ***LOADED*****

Finely tuned, made for travel.

Very poor reliablity and GMC Service

Best Vehicle I have ever had

2015 SLT

New Standards set for Full-Size Luxury SUVs

Pent-Up Demand

Major Problems

Love it, but it's not perfect

Right choice

Our third Yukon; still love 'em

First SUV

GMC Dirty, Little, Hidden Secret

So far good car....

*Caution 2009 Yukon

Excellent Vehicle

Great Vechicle

Great SUV

Very reliable, perfect for our needs

Great truck, bad MPG

Settled

Great  SUV

denali

Perfect Truck

Cheap Door Actuators and Handles

08 Denali Black/Black

Love it!

2008 Denali Problems

Best Ride EVER

Buyer Beware

Great Truck !!!!

Secure, comfortable and reliable

Exelent Vehicle

The great suv

Great Truck

Great Surburban

Awesome Vehicle

Denali promises but does not deliver

Misfire Misfire Misfire

Good Vehicle

Capable SUV

Engine failure at 110,000 miles

Traditional SUV

Better Value Than Escalade

I couldn't be happier 

Surprised

The Best SUV I Have Ever Driven!

Love The BEAST

Love it!

Nice Looking - but Poor Quality

One of the Lemons I guess

Better than anticipated

Excellent  SUV

Great Vehicle

I love this car

Great large SUV

Great Luxury but Capable SUV

To many problems

Went with the Denali over the Escalade

Big wheels for grown ups

Gorgeous in every way!

Love it

The good and the bad

Sierra to Yukon

Great truck

The Best Buy SUV

Outstanding truck

The  SUV

Denali review

Mr. Meticulous Highly Recommends

Yukon SLT2

Good looking ride

Maybe I bought a LEMON?

Was not "Professionial Grade"

Owner

Not Professionial Grade

Awesome

Great Fun to Drive Total Enjoyment

I love it!

Do Everything SUV

Excellent car!

Tough Truck

The bus

Load 'er up!

I love my Black Beauty

Best Yet!

Great vehicle

Great SUV

For The Price

bad choice

Great to Drive

Best SUV On The Road!!

Denali

The SUV to have if you need the space.

Very nice drive with some issues.

Expensive SUV but worth it

AWD went out twice in 6 months

Meh

Recommendations

Unacceptable Ride!

Awesome Gas Mileage

GMC Yukon

My third Denali but not my last

Great ride

I love my Yukon!

3rd Denali--Getting Ready for 4th

Denali

Denali - 

Only buy it if you like ongoing repairs

Total Lemon

Yukon Opinon

Good bang for the buck

Great!

Good in the Beginning

Fully loaded model

XL Model

Speed Style Durability and Comfort

Awesome

best Vehicle Ever

Great vehicle - bad mileage

Terrific Vehicle

Awesome!

300K on this Monster and Still Going

Awesome Vehicle

Junk

Good Family vehicle

What a truck

One SUV does it all

Finally, an improved interior

Wife Chose this over LR3

Stylish roadster

Love the Z4

Constant compliments!

Too many repairs

The perfect roadster

In shop 5 weeks out of 7 months, and still counting...

Near-perfect roadster

2011 Z4 35i rocks!

LOVE my new to me Z4

Drive them all and you'll choose this one!

2011 Z4 sDrive35is, A Smile Making Machine!

The Perfect Roadster

My Dream Car

Thrills

Not a Cayman or a Boxster, but good for what it is

Unfairly Overlooked and Ridiculously Underrated!

Great Car

smooth ride

RLX Understated Value

Transmission issues

A lot of car for the money

2016 TLX v4 transmission jerk nightmare

My Acura TLX blows away other cars in its class

2016 Acura TLX - V6 Advance AWD

It's that kind of easy listening thrill

Great Value for comfort and tech features.

Engine block have pihole leak after 2000 miles.

A wonderful car if Acura engineers stop stupidity

Acura TLX is a Fine Car

Solid buy

Love my TLX 2017

Disappointing for a Luxury Automobile

2017 TLX is an embarrassment for a luxury car

Best kept secret amongst midsize sporty sedans

Best Acura/Honda that I've ever owned

Awesome Acceleration and Combined Fuel Economy

2016 and the transmission is still bad!

ACURA ain't what it used to be ... !

Good daily city driver.

Great car, great value

Awesome Car Great Value!

Practical luxury

Regret Purchase

vibration

Z4 Zips!!!!

Roadster Love

Love my Z4is!

Simply fun at every turn!

Makes you feel young!

Best of the Best!

Finally a real roadster

Best luxury sports car ever

outstanding car

Forbes writer is an idiot. This car is awesome

Electric Motors Accelerate Schmooooooth!!!!

Ordered My Second RLX!

2017 Z71

Love it so far

Overall Great Truck

GMC Savana

Tired of Engine Noise

1% Customer

better than ford

I'll only buy Duramax

Pleased

85 SLE with 5 cylinder Extended Cab.

Aint that Canyon grand?

Great Value

It's OK

Great first car

Owned lots of vehicles, this one is best

GMC Canyon 2004

I got the lemon

Not that great

04 GMC Canyon Crew Cab 4wd

GMC Canyon review

Fun and good gas mileage

My Review

Minor Problems...

A month of interstates and mountains

Still satisfied after 2.5 yrs.

Could be Better

Canyon performance

GMC Canyon is a nice truck

Canyon Extended Cab Z71 W/3.5l 5Cyl

Wish I could drive my Arcadia - still in the shop :(

The Fuel Injectors Stopped Working

Crap 2009 Acadia

Uncomfortable at any speed

I wish I bought a Pilot

Acadia vs Yukon

2009 GMC Acadia FIRE

GMC disappoints BIG TIME!

Nothing but transmission problems & noises

Mixed Emotions

Had to give it up

GMC Acadia Junkmobile

Totally dissapointed

Satisfied Customer

Better then I excepted 

Power Steering

Time to Sell...Maybe???

Good & bad points

Stay Away - It's Time for a Class Action Suit

GMC Acadia 2009

LOVE my CRZ

CRZ in Miami

Zippy Fun Hybrid

Best (affordable) hybrid yet

Great car for what it is

The 1 all Prius owners wish they bought

Finally, a fun good looking hybrid!

Exceeds Expectations

The CRZ is much better than the CRX or Honda SI

Almost a new CRX!

Great Storage and Fun, Fuel Efficient

Lots of Room for a 2-Seater!

Will not crank

Best hybrid I have tested

Almost bought one...

CRX - REBORN

Love having a hybrid that's cute and sporty

Fun Fun Fun

2011 CR-Z

Awesome car, couldn't be happier!

Fun Drive!

I love it

I love getting in my car each morning! 

Fun to Drive and Economical.

Great ride, performance and fuel economy

Great comprimise between sport and milage

Terrible engine

Completely unreliable and poorly designed.

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR!!!

GMC Acadia unreliable

Extremely Concerned Customer

Love all but seats/headrests

Worst GM Car Ever and Last

GMC Dealer near richmond VA

6 month progress report

No longer impressed 

A GMC LEMON

Never expected this from General Motors

Piece of junk!!

Brakes

Very Disappointed

ugh...can't afford to keep American

Biggest car mistake of my life!  

Loving it so far!

Great Product

Happy with purchase

Do not buy this car 2

Beats a Cadalliac SRX Hands Down

Do not buy this car

Constant Problems

trans &gas milage

Last GM product I will ever own.

Would not buy this car again

I will never buy a GM again

STAY AWAY FROM GMC ACADIA!!!!

Frustrated with My Acadia

Never again

honeymoon is over

Piece of Crap. So MAD

2008 GMC Acadia AWD

Love/Hate Relationship

Waste of my money

No wonder GM went bankrupt

Don't waste your time or money

Like a Toddler - This car needs constant attention

Do not buy this car!

GM hit a home run

Nothing but problems since day one

Love my Acadia!!

Pain in the butt

8 Year 170K mile review

Great Crossover

Transmission and power steering

Dream car... Nightmare repairs

First year win!

Too many repairs

Lemon many times over

Waste of money

Well Gone GMC !

2007 GMC ACADIA TRAMSMITTION ISSUES

Excellent reliability!  Really.

The GMC Acadia is Awesome!

Full sized family of 6 fits comfortably

Sorry I Bought this piece of garbage

Perfect

Best Vehicle Ever

Big Red

Beats my wifes F250

MY 2500 HD

GMC HD

The Best Truck Ever!!

One helluva truck!

First two years were heaven.  

Towing Superstar

Love my truck!

SLT 2500HD 4WD XCAB SB 8.1L ALLISON 5SPD

seats not up to mar

Not Professional Grade

My 2500-HD

The Best Trruck On The Road

Duramax Diesel 2500HD Ext Cab 4X4

My second Acadia

Wow!

Love my Acadia

A Great Vehicle at an astounding price!

Excellent Mid-Sized Truck

Mildly disappointed

2017 4x4 6.2 liter V8 W/8spd transmission, Nice!

Shaky Mess of a Truck

My paper weight

Nice truck, with flaws

Engine hesitates when it shift at low speeds

Great fun, great value!

The only sport hybrid in the world

Honda CRZ Navi

Intellink and back seat made me hate this car.

Great Family SUV

My third Acadia

Love it!

2016 GMC Acadia Denali is Awesome

Have 3 children one dog @ I love my acadia

2016 GMC Acadia

2016 basically a mildly updated 2012

Awesome but not perfect

I love my new 2016 Acadia SLT-1 with options

New Car But Costly Repairs

2016 GMC Acadia Denali FWD

*UPDATE*- BEWARE - ENGINEERING PROBLEMS

Overrated

price is high for this suv,better buy,s out there.

Good choice for 3 row family car

Acadia Lives in Repair Shop

DON"T BUY THIS !!  Several options Dont Work !!!!!

Not what I expected

Acadia from a Yukon

The Acadia Dream

Not what I wanted, or expected

Don't do it

My take on Mileage and Interior Design

Acadia Denali

Pure Luxury

slush factor & interior faux pas

17 Acadia SLT1 test drive

Could like the car

Nothing to jump up and down over

Product Choices

Exterior great-Interior terrible

Leasing 2017 Acadia Denali AWD

The Big Terrain is a great family vehicle

Excellent value for the money

Moved from Honda and Toyota to GMC

Fantastic car

Great car

Nice appearance but ownership cost disaster

Stay away from this vehicle

Good But.

Major Problems

Excellent truck

Love it

Pleasantly Surprised!

Cool Canyon

Overall a good truck but has some issues

Love My Canyon!

Very disappointed

Lots of little problems during first 40K miles

Great car for it's segment

Great premium SUV

owned it 4 days

Long term review

Still going strong

Sweet 5 Cylinder-GMC Pickup Truck

Great Truck

Great truck

All-new and fun to drive

great truck

Great truck !

Love It

Engine /electrical problems

Good for what it is....

Great SUV alternative to a minivan

2014 GMC Denali

Disappointing Purchase!

Ideal size for passenger comfort and cargo.

Pleasure Ride

NOT RELIABLE

GM forgot to include transmission

A CAR FOR ALL SEASONS

Extremely Unsatisfied!

Acadia, Durango, or just go with the Sienna?

Nice but buggy

Great vehicle with a few minor shortcomings

Dealer has had our car longer than we have

Nicest Car I've Ever Had!

Bought cause it was cheap

Consider this

Rusted brakes

The bad reviews must have gotten a lemon

My Grand Canyon

Love my Canyon

Don't Bother

A BIG DISSAPOINTMENT

Great truck

BOY DO I REGRET BUYING MY TRCUK

My Canyon

2006 GMC Canyon

2006 GMC Crew Cab 2WD

Not to big not to small

My First Truck

I can't beleive I bought another GM

Ayayayyy Chevy!

body frame rust very bad

My Canyon

Great all-around truck!

Like it so far...

Best Truck for My Money

Brake Problems

SO DISAPPOINTED!

Pretty good truck overall

Buy a Dodge

Not a Yota

I really like it

Great Truck!

Recommend Canyon

Towable 4WD/Automatic

2008 GMC Canyon SLE Crew Cab 4cyl

Nice Little Ride

Nice Truck at a Reasonable Price

wish I would have waited for the V8

Runs like a champ

3.7  5 cyl  SLE

Tough Truck

New owner.

2007 GMC Canyon

Very, very basic

So far so good

Something's missing 

Best deal available

DONT EXPECT DECENT MILEAGE!!

Decent Value in a Midsize Truck.

AMAZINGLY UNCOMFORTABLE; POOR console layout

Leaks!

2015 Denali Acadia: Nothing much better.

If you want true Voice Nav, DO NOT buy this SUV

Disappointed in the 2015 GMC Acadia Denali

CONSUMER REPORT RATING ON COMPETITIVE VEHICLE

Great SUV

The Acadia Denali is a winner.

PAINFUL!!! Thank to bad seats

Great car great price!

Not worthy of the Denali name

Glove compartment light

Steering and rear tail door

Worst "Denali" ever

Love My Acadia!!

Refresh Done Well

Excellent all around SUV

33000K miles and happy

We love our 2013 Acadia Denali!

Sunroof leaks

Surprised so far

Good  vehicle... great for a family

Car 
2012 Acadia SLT 1, AWD

Mileage is a Joke!

Grandpa & neema enjoying gmc Acadia slt2

GMC broke my heart and my bank

Love it

Fun

wow!!!!

Jeckyl and Hyde

Acadia is a great family vehicle

Buyers Remorse

GMC $129 month!

Acadias are the BEST!

Ready to trade in...

Love this car!!!

Maintenance costs out of control

Fun to drive

Transmission Problems

Not for the snow

So Far So Good

Happy With My Purchase !!!

Not bad at all

BEST CAR. period

THOROUGH REVIEW

Nice crossover that smokes on cold starts

2011 Not entirely a miss or a hit

2011 Acadia

Disappointment

Too many service visits.

The 2016 GMC Acadia Denali is my favorite vehicle

GMC Acadia 4WD Great for Towing

Great to own

Great car

Under Rated

The Coolest Hybrid on the Market

best driver-oriented hybrid for the money

The CR-Z is a success for HONDA and its owners

Much more fun than the Prius C

Drove them all... 

Pleased that GM Has Come Back Strong...

2012 Acadia SLT-2 AWD (Love it!)

Many great features, just one that's worrying me

Acadia--smooth but flawed

Hybrid + 6-speed Manual = Perfect Car

Awesome Car

way more them they give credit

I came from a 430HP M3. And I couldn't be happier!

my Honda CRZ  2013

Great little car!

Replaced my CRX

Fun and fuel efficient car

I love my 2013 Purple CR-Z

An awesome blend--

New truck with some issues

First time GMC owner

Too Tall Truck

Torquey little gem

It's a truck

Last GMC I'll ever buy!

Needs a V8

Read this

Love My Canyon!

Almost purchased, but decided to wai

3500 GMC Savana - a Workhorse

2005 GMC Savana

Midnight blue ,the only color to drive

Best on the road

Excellent Family Alternative to SUV's

Need better side mirrors

Great in a number of ways.

GMC Savanna - A nice ride

2500 PRO PACKAGE

GMC Savana Explorer Conversion

Plenty of space

My 2000 Savana Conversion

The Family Cruiser

If you get one its for the long haul

Great van

GMC Savana diesel

Great Van

A Great Cross Country Trooper

The kids love it

Bonnie's van

For family and travel with space

A great family vehicle

Epitomy of Planned Obsolescence

What a GREAT truck!!!!!

Midsize Truck Worth the Money

Good Design But Poor GM Support

A Well Built Midsize Pickup

All show - No go

Love it

Used 2015 GMC Canyon

My review

I wouldn't buy it again

The "Grand Canyon".

Best value for mid size trucks

Transmission and braking problems from day one

Seating and Paint Job

Great truck, good value overall!

Impressive New Addition...

20000 mile update

Great Truck!

"Mid-size truck" with big power

Lots of Repairs

GMC Savana

Great Conversion Van

Great Van - built solid

Windy!

ONLY small pickup  that can be towed.

This is a Great Little Truck

Not that bad

gmc canyon

GMC/Chevrolet

Major Improvements

Beter then my tacoma by far

Canyon Conquers Mountain Commute

Great truck few problems

bought American-GMC Loyalty customer

Grandma Loves This Truck

Great Mileage

Almost a perfect truck.

Comfortable, Fun to Drive V8

Great truck

2009 Canyon new 5.3 ltr. V-8

Great looking and performing Truck

This truck saved my life

High-end SUV with a bed

Love the driveability. Quiet cabin. Great ride.

2.8l Diesel- sweet!

Canyon 2.8L Duramax SLE With All Terrain Package

Base Model Canyon 4X4 Extended Cab 6cyl 300+HP

Great mid size truck

Great mid sized pickup with a more formal design

Most comfottable velicle I've ever owned!

Nice Ride - No Fatigue

Mine is a Duramax Diesel that wasn't on the list

Every year

2001 makes additional quality improves

Lemon cargo vans

GMC Savana Cargo

better than ford

Great Van

runsinthefamily

03 AWD Savana Cargo "Doors Galore"

Cargo Van

I love my GMC

Excellent Cargo Van!

Overall excellent

SVC TRADE VAN

Never another GMC again!

exterior mirrors

Junk

5.7 engine fails after warranty

Dependable, hard-working truck

MY 2000 SAVANA 

Great for vacation

Fuel sucker & poor quality

5 Door Explorer Conversion Flexibility 

The truck that keeps on going

I recommend this Truck

1993 GMC 1500 Sierra

93 SL 4.3V6 8ft bed reg cab

warning, warning

MInt condition

K1500 5spd 350 ext cab

I love my truck

1991 gmc sierra reliability

all the truck you'll ever need

Ski's review

My truck

Reliable

One to keep!

Great truck

Good worker

I'm a GM truck man, that's all I drive

Great Truck

Perfection

IMMORTAL350

Great Truck.!.!.!.!

Ultimate Reliability

1992 GMC 4X4

Best Damn Truck Built

this ol ST

Put to sleep

Still going

Good truck

1992 GMC Z71 Review

Others envy it

Keeps going and going........

Great truck

No Complaints...sort of.

Best truck I've ever seen and owned.

Genuine Sierra

One helluva a truck

Awesome

Great Truck

never selling it

100% truck

Best truck made

Excellent Pickup

Love This Truck

I love my truck!

great truck!!!

"GREAT

brown bear

Just Change the Oil & Filters

Excellent

Awesome truck!

1994 GMC  GOOD TRUCK

Truck that could

My GMC

daily driver turned show truck

Best Vehicle I have owned.

Hell Yes I Love My Truck

Thunder Rolls

Solid GMC

No worries for high miles

P-O-W-E-R!

an oldie, but a goodie

Solid Truck

1992 GMC

GMC 92 Truck

Great old truck

Restoration

A good friend

Good Truck

Old Blue, 94 Z71

kenneth review

Eric's Power House

My Good Ol' Truck

Bull Dog of a Truck

One Good American Truck

Keep on Truckin'

Not Professional Grade

Not Good!

Singh 

Poor gas mileage

not so great

Proud GMC owner

GMC K1500 Ext Cab

Awesome Power

Average

Excellent Truck

GMC 1500

great truck

great truck

Original owner

A Great Ride

My GMC

One Great Truck

5 year review

a great truck

Best vehicle ever owned out of alot.

1998 GMC 1500

1998 GMC SIERRA

Water leaks

Great Truck!

Sierra Denali

2002 GMC 1500 SLE

A great truck

GMC's 'Hot Truck' is still a truck

Big Man Review

Problems to plan for

Best truck we've had so far.....

Great Truck

GMC Sierra 01

I will cry the day I sell it

GMC Sierra 

GMC (Grand Ma's Chariot)

2001 GMC Sierra 4WD SLE LB 5.3 Liter 

excellent vehicle

GMC Forgot Driver's Side Ergonomics

MOVE OVER FORD

great

This one is a keeper

2002 gmc 1500 4x2 sle

I'm impressed

Satisfied for the most part

A great truck

Back to the Blue Oval for me

My Sierra

Bad experience

Great Truck.

If it onlly could turn better!!

Opinionated Mechanic

Good truck!!

Great truck for the money

Best Looking Truck

bang for your buck!

127,000 miles and still going strong!

Despite problems - still love this truck

Functional but boring

Best truck yet

New Year New Truck/Great Truck Great Yr

No problems yet.

After 70,000  have only had one problem

Shockingly Nice Truck

Why is there no active fuel management?

My GMC truck

Annoying road noise

Great truck

2008 GMC 1500

worst truck i have ever owned.

First GMC Sierra 1500

me again

AFM Lifter Camshaft Failure at 85K!!

*UPDATED*  36,000 miles...Running Great

Black beast from the east

 2011 gmc 5.3l flex fuel

Is This Another GMC Cover-Up

Old technology-Drum brakes

Super

Steering feels cheap

My little GMC work truck

Uninformed recall cost me my Truck

lifted gmc

Truck deluxe

Love This Truck

08 Sierra 1500

Lifters lift 2 grand out of my wallet every yr!

News of GM's dimise greatly exhaggerated

GMC got it Right!

Bad Transmission

need minor details

Fun truck to own

Exellent Truck

GMC 1500 seat quality

Awesome Truck

road noise

GMC Z-71 4x4 All Terrain 

Generally a good truck

2010 Sierra 5.3 v8  reg cab short-box

Great Truck, Great Brand

21,000 miles (Everything I expected)

Maybe DODGE next time???

Pontiac's Worst Yet

Huge Step up

2009 GMC Sierra Z71 Crew Cab 4x4

Still not Toyota Quality

Very good but could be better

New Truck

Love it...

2010 GMC 6.2 liter extended cab pickup

Hey GM Designers Quit taking stupid pills

i love my truck 

Love my truck!!

headlite replacement

Great Truck

Garbage Motors Crap

High Speed Vibration

Worst truck I have ever owned

Headlamps

Not the Best

Great Truck

2012 Sierra Denali

Amazing TRUCK!!!!!!!

Driving in Comfort

A joke

Never again

Going strong

Best Truck in the world

2009 Sierra

Almost 2 years later still a great choice!

My 1st GMC truck

Great Truck

high oil consumption ,delay in throttle response and cheaply built parts

2007 GMC Sierra Classic Z71

Great Truck!

3 years after

Third Sierra and have loved them all!

Good truck if you are OK with the MPG

Bad News for GMC

Not So Happy 

Reliable, comfortable truck with decent fuel econ.

Love my new truck

My new GMC Sierra SLT Vortec Max Crew cb

Oil Consumption

'07 GMC Sierra Denali AWD

Remember the V 8-6-4?

Wow! GM hit a home run with this truck!

Nice More Dependable alternative to F150

The truck of the future

Awesome Vehicle

2007 GMC sierra single cab work truck

Ain't what she used be

Amazing work truck with 4.3

Fit and finish

transmission dead after 44k miles

Great truck so far

Very Nice Truck

Thumbs up design-Thumbs down mechanical

Poor Quality Truck

Sick Puppy

My Last GM product

Collapsed Lifter 5.3L AFM

GMC Sierra Denali AWD

Lifters at 86k miles

not what i exspected fora new truck

Check carefully before you buy

2006 GMC 1500 4X4 SLE Z71 

Sorry to say my last GM product

Confused by others

Nice Rig

Wonderful truck

Greta truck

Crew cab 4X4

2005 hd  review

Awesome truck

GMC, you can and must do better

2006 GMC 1500  ext-cab 4x4

GMC Trucks are Junks!

ALMOST IMPRESSED

Great Truck!!

I love my truck!

My GMC Truck

Mostly electrical problems

Not happy for a few years

No More GM 4 me

2nd GM truck

Needed work but worth it.

Weak drive train

GMC Sierra 1500

No more GM products for me

2005 Sierra Denali

1 heck of a truck

best truck ive ever owned

Amazing

99 Sierra Step Side Reg Cab 2w drive

Love the Z71 but mileage is taking toll

blows away the competition

1999 SLE  1500 Sierra GMC

No more GM products for me.

Great Truck

BIg Red

2004 Sierra Denali

Great Rig!

Life

gmc

GREAT TRUCK

Awesome Truck!

What happened?

happy!!

GMC 1500 Lemon

Worst truck ever

GMC Denali Quadrasteer

2004 GMC Sierra 1500 SLE 4X4 Std cab SB 5.3

Rust bucket

2004 GMC Sierra 4.8 V8

High miler, still purring!

Best tucks on the road

2004 GMC Sierra SLE 5.3 litre

Great truck for the daily usage and pulling tra

GMC Sierra Sharp and Long Lasting

Love my Truck

Best vehicle I have ever owned

Great Truck

Why GMC?

GMC builds the best trucks!

What a truck should be.

Absolutly Satisfied

The Professional Grade!!!!!!

Best Truck Ever

5.3 V8 why go smaller?

A fairly good all round truck

happy owner

Averaging one repair a year

Super Truck

2003 GMC SLE

2003 GMC 4WD Pickup

Cracked Cylinder Heads

best truck i ever bought!

great trucks

gmc

GMC Denali

Silervado to GMC

Great Truck

Great Truck

Best Truck on the market

Beautiful truck but a lemon!

I love this truck

Good truck with lots of extras

The Sierra, 
POOR GMC

I have become a GMC service expert

GMC Sierra

Completely Satisfied

My last American product

No Brakes, Bad Electrical Systems

Time out!!

The best truck I ever had!

A Great Truck

Dependable workhorse

its a [non-permissible content removed] tank

My Awesomer Truck!

just like a beautiful woman

Review

Best Vehicle I have ever Owned

You can't go wrong

Top Truck

Awesome GMC

my 1st new vehicle ever

Great Truck

Dependable truck

1997 GMC Z71

A real long term test 

dependable ride

very reliable

Pleased with my Sierra

2001 GMC 4x4 5.3 Z 71 SLE

Love My GMC Truck

Love it

Tuff Trucks

Best Truck On the Road

third gm truck

Great truck but fuel milage stinks.

Great Truck

2000 GMC Sierra Z71

Reoccurring problems

Some mechanical problems

2000 GMC 1500

Great truck

Glad I didn't buy a Tundra.

2000 GMC Sierra

GMC SLE Z71

great truck

Great Truck

Wet Distributor Cap - No Ignition

Nice ride

2000 1500 SLE

work truck

Great Truck

oddities

Awesome Truck

My Favorite Vehicle I Ever Owned

Nothing but Love

My Great Late Wife's Great Last Ride

Nice truck

Slowly falling apart

GMC Trucks are Great!

lemonade

Good truck

GreatBuy

Truly a best buy

Easy Glider

1998 GMC SIERRA

Gas Milage and wear out quick items

Best truck I've ever owned.

like a rock is true to the name

One great truck!

1996 GMC SIERRA SLE 5.7 LTR 2WD SB

Best looking and functional work truck ever!

Love My Z71

1996 gmc sierra 1500 ext cab z71 4x4 . i love it

Great Truck

Nice

BOOM goes the GMC Sierra - LOVE My Truck!

1500 Sierra

Bought Domestic

BEST VALUED TRUCK!!!

More than I could have hoped for

Hard shifting at low speeds

Elevation Edition

Switched to GMC Denali after 12 years of Tundra

Surprise Love Affair

2016 GMC Denali Crew Cab 6.2

Great Value Truck

Terrific vehicle!

Solid and comfortable Silverado LT

very satisified Sierra owner

Nice truck

05 GMC 2500HD Duramax/ZF-6 Manual

Not  Enough Professional Grade

It's OK, but check out the Dodge too

My GMC

Great look Bad Price

already in for repair after a few weeks new 2015

My 2015 is the best truck I have ever owened.

Tranny Issues

My favorite truck!

Best of Fleet

Sierra HD with the 8.1!

great performance

What a TRUCK!


Best Truck to get

2004 Gmc Duramax Allison Auto

best one yet

Good but could be better!

BUY ONE!!!

2002 Gmc Duramax, 4wd Crew Cab

Great overall family truck

One Big Truck

rear tire wear stinks

Great Truck

Can't wipe the grin away

Hot Duramax

8.1L tons of gas power!

What  A Truck - Diesel/Allison Combo

dura-maxed

2nd Diesel, I'm keeping this one

A refined, well built truck

Excellent HD choice & great value

Great truck but a kidney blaster empty 

Transmission/ride

GMC 2500 HD/ Durmax Diesel

Research Before Buying

GMC Duramax

Diesel is wonderful

GMC  2500HD

Wow!

Great "novelty" HD pick-up truck!

Very Pleased

Loyal GMC Guy is back

Loving every minute

ONLY GMC for ME!

Very Powerful. Very Comfortable

Clean GMC

GMC Duramax

My first diesel

Very surprised!

2500HD

The Best I've Seen

Duramax Rules

Professional Work Truck

GMC 2500 HD

Awesome 2500 HD

Awesome

Love it

The good, the bad and the ugly

Love my Duramax!

GM has lowered its standards!

Work Truck Z82 Priceless

2007 GMC

2007 Sierra 2500HD

StyleandComfort

Is it Montana tough?

Amazing Truck

Duramax

Well-built truck

2009 gmc sierra 2500HD slt

Great truck

It Seems Like a Keeper

Would take this over a Ford any day

7 months of ownership & still great!

08 GMC 3/4 duramax! is it worth it?

Absolutely Amazing!

So far, love it.

My first 3/4 Ton Truck & Diesel 

Best truck I have seen, tested all

It's big!

Great Truck

2500hd

Great Truck

Needs Help

Sharp comfortable work truck

Duramax/Allison combo is a beast!

Not a fan

15 months later, still a great truck

2008 GMC 2500 Diesel

Back to re-review after 6 months

2008 2500 HD 4x4 6.6L DurmaxW/Allison

body moulding falling off

Poor Gas Mileage

Review of 2002 GMC Sierra 2500HD 4WD 

ULTIMATE TRUCK

DMAX

Pleased

Best GMC I have owned

2500HD 4x4 6.0L

Good truck

VERY Tough Truck

best 4  truck  door out there.

Great truck

pretty good truck overall

This truck is awesome

No more GM, under 50k and warranty work 3 times

Cheap Old Geezer Truck

Decent truck, horrible factory tires!

2500 HD SLT

GMC 2500HD 4 years later

It was nice at $1.89/gal for fuel.

great

disgusted

Duramax Powered

This Truck needs help!

another awesome gm truck

2004 Duramax

Don's Review

 lemon

Truck of the Year

Good, bad, and ugly

Not Impressed

Bob's GMC

GMC Sierra

Excellent Duramax Diesel!

Power Plus

Not so happy with my 2500HD

Fuel Economy

Still smiling...

Go GMC!!

GMC CrewCab 4WD SLT with 8.1L /Allison

nice truck

Nice for towing

Bst truck in USA

GMC Duramax 2500HD SLT

Don's 2500 HD

Sad but true

Wanting just a bit more

Great Camper Truck

GMC Newbie

GMC Lover

Honestly a Great Truck Overall

Great Reliabilty Poor Interior

GMC Duramax 360HP w/6 speed Allison

Great Truck!

2500HD crew cab, SB with 8.1 v-8

2500HD Duramax 

It works

2006 2500HD Duramax

Excellent family recreation truck

Not your grandfather's diesel.

2006 GMC reveiw

NOT Professional Grade (GMC "Shakerra")

If you want an OKAY truck this one is for you!

Looks so good but just so awful

Transmission replaced at 7000 miles

Great looks, good mileage but poor quality

Very Nice Truck

10,000 Miles and In Love

first GMC

5.3L 4WD 2DR SHORTBOX Sierria 1500

2015 GMC Sierra 1500 Crew Cab SLT

Sierra Duramax/Allison

GMC2500HD

Love of my life

Nice truck

Duramax Diesel Love IT

Great truck

Opinion on recent Used purchase 6.6 Duramax

The time tested truth

Great

05' 6.6 V8

GM Got This One Right

GMC almost had something

Impressed

Looks good...Drives Poor 

Long term Update 

My 1st 4k miles

Comfortable Truck

I was going to buy a Suburban...

2015's are a Lemon Law Case waiting to Happen

Good truck, rattles worse than a maraca

not happy with my truck

Transmission Faulty

Worst truck ever owned in 40 years

2014 Sierra Chassis components (RUST everywhere!!!)

Subtle, but well executed

Not a happy GMC owner

Love my GMC

Truck is a mess

Transmission problem

Very satisfied Sierra owner.....exceeding my expectations...

2016 Sierra SLT 4WD

No one comes between me and my GMC

2017 Sierra SLT Crewcab 5.3L

So far, so good (mostly)

Denali crew cab 5.3l 4x4

FRAME RUST EVERYWHERE (Bumper to Bumper)

Kick Ass Truck

Transmission is HORRIBLE

Dangerous headlights

Nice truck, but the driveability is questionable

Good, but not great

GMC SIerra HD Duramax

Hi Oh Silver

Keep Looking

Speedometer Problems

Truly Professional Grade

Lots of wows but some why did they do this's?

Work Truck

Life long GM fan is loosing faith.

3rd 2500HD SLT and Love it

Who says Valentines are always red!

Poor Quality Truck

GM Quality

Great Diesel Truck

Duramax!

2015 Sierra HD diesel

Can't drive at night

Looks great till you start looking

SWALLOWS CARGO SIPS THE FUEL

Good vehicle

Transit Connect work rig

Nice low cost wheelchair van

Blue Transit Connect 2010 - great design

Connect to Travel

A professional drivers opinion.

Perfect for small business operator

Finally...

Euro Van for the 2010's

never buy another ford

Fun car, but pricey to repair

the sleeper

Our last Taurus

This is not your fathers sho

Over 200k miles and still going

Not too reliable

My   SHO  review.

ford taurus

Taurus SHO 91 1/2 great car !

Good utility car

One hell of a car...

my Taurus

Low Cost Car

one the few 1991 taurus sho's left  for 2016

3.8 L engine

Don't buy this car

This is a good car

Money Pit

never again!

Don't Laugh It's Paid For

Sports Sedan On A Budget

91 plus SHO

True Track Car

Fun but not Comfortable

My toy

Hawaii 5.0

5.0L Mustang

Good Car

Everyone should own one

Excellent Value for an American Classic

300k '90 Stang

Love My Car

quarter mile monster

Awesome Car

2005-FORD GT-Owns The Road

best car ever

The best car I ever drove

FORD GT: FERRARI SLAYER

Good but not great

da kine

GT

the best yet again

sweet

A true master piece

Best car I have ever owned.

The Real Deal

Red Ford GT

best car in world

Owning the Ford GT

More fun than imagined...

reveiw

Fast and Fun

Superior to my Ferrari in Every Catagory

Buy this car.  Seriously, buy it now.

Frustratingly close to a good car

Poor battery

Love it!

2013 Fusion Energi SE Owner...

Comfort, great materials, high tech, save gas!

Somewhat wary

Best Car Purchase Decision Ever!

334mpg this year 263 mpg two year average

Better EV Range Than Stated

Great vehicle, the plug in is the bonus

Expected a lot, got more

Effcient Commuter Car

Best Hybrid Vehicle By Far

Tesla would be ashamed...

Not safe and many trips to the dealer

On my second one!

drive it a while its different but u will love it

Expensive disappointment

Bargain family Ferrari

Wow

Owned for 3 months

Peppy

Great car, Horrible execution, Horrible customer service and Horrible dealer network.

2013 Focus ST-3  ownership review after 2.5 years

Best car I've ever owned

Affordable performance

Freeway Steering Difficult 

my new Focus ST

The 1st 500 Miles

Motivation to drive

Best hot hatch value for the money

New car

Very Nice Hot-hatch

Focus ST

LOVE THIS CAR

Denver to LA and Back - ST3 is Excellent

Love my ST

Love it....

Smokin 2006 Fort GT

The Best Value Among Exotics

Wow

2006 Ford GT Review

Track car for the rd

Great, but...

no disappointments

Gt350

Red with White stripeShelby 350 GT

5.0

I currently own a 1985

m

My mustang 

Mustang LX

A new legend is born

New toy

Amazing car! Well worth the money!!!

The best drivers car available!

Amazing

Zoom

A great Car

Great in its day

one sweet car

Fast and quick

Exactly right for dealing with city traffic.

Small, but cost effective

Poor design and reliability

Poor Choice

This van is a joke

taurus problems

Not a bad car to me

Taurus' Rock

A Ford with WARP DRIVE.

Don't buy a Ford Taurus

A great car to own

It's a Ford

The almost car of my dreams

Bad Year for Taurus

Taurus : A Great Car That Falls Apart

Mostly bark and little bite

<3 my Fox

Fastest Reliable Street Car 

Mustang LX 5.0

So far, so good!

Mainteance and relibility -10

2013 Transit Connect DO NOT BUY

Great dog-hauler, but amenities back to 1980s

Cheetah's Personal Service Van

Road Warrior

Grandma's Taxi

Stay away

Just what I needed 

Good not great.

Great Concept, Poor Execution.

Never Again

8 months in Titanium Wagon

Bad experience "Again"

Huge improvement from last years Model

badly built. so sorry I have it

fun to drive

Cross Country Trip

Can't see Can't see

Used Delivery Van Converted Into Nice Mini-Camper

First mini van in a while

First mini van in a while

I use mine commercially and have had 2

Poor performer

you get what you pay for!

You will have fun racing bicyclists

2011 transit connect

Transit in Service

Work Van- Not very nice, I would hate it if I had paid for it!

can't understand possitive reviews

Brakes continue to be an issue

Looks good, performs bad

Wear your Mouthguard

Mini Van Make Over

It's designed for work

Sprinter on a budget

It's a mini van

An excellent choice

Awesome Car!!!

the bolster seats were killing me within minutes

Positive Early Review Base ST

Get it

Ford focus ST

It's True

Ford has Finally Brought This Winner to the USA!

Actually not buying due to the Recaro Seats

2016 ST 1 Month Review

Sporty, Agile, Fun car... Not for beginners

Go fast now.

The ride I have always wanted

Special Transportation

Best Functional Sport Sedan For The $$

The ST1 variant is the best bang for the buck.

Traded our Focus Hatch for a Focus ST

Engineering Technician

2014 bought used in 2015

Adrenaline fix

4 cylinder with v8 torque and race car handling!!

This is a Focus... Well... No... This is an ST.

Update - 2015 Focus ST Going strong @ 66 K miles

Amazing bang for the buck.

Fun, Value, Economy - It's tough to beat

This is not your daddy's Focus

Feels like a go-kart for the road

Red Rocket

1st American car since I was a teenager!

Amazing bang for your buck.

DON'T GET THE EXTENDED WARRANTY!!!!

Horrible Car

Great Car

Great so far, and huge improvement over 2012 Focus SE

Couldn't be happier.

Pocket. Rocket.

Consider what you want out of the car!

40k Mile Update

I love this car!

Great Car

Amazing Car!

2010 Ford Fusion Hybrid

Buy It As a Great Car Not Just a Hybrid

Won't Start

The best American Car on the Road

I'm In Love

Great Car!

Great value with low ownership costs

Everything I hoped for.

Awesome car

Not a huge fan of the hybrid

MPG Learning curve

2013 Fusion Hybrid--Efficient, gorgeous & fun

Ok Car

Best Car Yet

Ford Fusion Hybrid 2013

A Big Disappointment

Fantastic Car 

First hybrid

WOW, what a great car. 

OK to Drive, Do not expect anywhere near EPA

Best sedan on the market, perfect for almost everyone

Outstanding

Style, Comfort, and Economy

Absolutely outstanding ... exceeding expectations

Great Car, MPG Overstated

Very impressed so far.

Love the look and feel, but not the MPG

Nice, fairly quiet, comfortable, but just pretty good MPGs

Pleasant surprise

The Hybrid for Skeptics

Awesome car!!

Fusion

Smooth Ride Just Drive 44.5MPG Can't Complain

Gas at $1.50 per gallon?

Misleading MPG

12 months after ownership driving Uber

Luxury Sleeper

I just got it so I'm stoked right now

Luxury hybrid for $1000's less

Great Hybrid

Fusion Hybrid - True to Ford's Claims

VERY HAPPY PURCHASE :)

Grand

Awesome car

Second hybrid, first Ford hybrid

Fun and Fuel Effiecient

Amazing car

The Unexpected MPG

15,000 mile review

2016 500 Miles first thoughts-

2013 Fusion Hybrid

Good value, great car

Incredible car for the price.

Awesome car

Awesome car. Nothing's perfect.

2014 Fusion Hybrid at 22K Miles

Only one problem....

Great car

35K mileage update

You need to know how to drive a Hybrid.

A very well built appliance, comfortable, solid, but not fun to drive

An excellent value, superior build quality

So far, it's AMAZING!!!

Luxury Features without the Luxury Price Tag

Fusion Hybrid: Great Blend of Performance/Comfort

2014 Fusion Hybrid at 36K

MPG is for real. You just have to know how to drive it

Disappointed

2014 Fusion Hybrid S at 12K

No negatives

Wasn't Looking

better mpg

I bought a great car.

2015 Ford Fusion Hybrid

Great car for economy minded senior

Best Car I've Ever Owned

First Time Buyer

Melbourne Florida

I LOVE THIS CAR

very nice car!

Finally, A Winner

2011 Ford Fusion Hybrid - Drivers Ultimate Bliss

23 months and 67,000 miles 

Great car. 120,000 miles and going

Many bad experiences

Mileage betters window sticker

Sold on hybrid tech thanks to Fusion

Pleasantly Surprised

Most satisfying car I've owned

9 Month and very satisfied.

Very Happy With My Choice!

Great Car

almost 200,000 miles

Excellence in measured in a variety of ways...

Absolutely the best car I've ever owned

3 years-20000miles

Stalling Issue - Another Example

New Transit-250

Sliding door issue is NOT just cabin pressure

Transit has problems

Not a service van!

Fuse relay

Regarding the issues related to the sliding door..

So far, so good

Huge improvement over the econoline

Best in Class

My  experience

Top of the Pile in now crowded Small Business Van

my e350 box truck was more reliable

A mover's dream van

Worst Vehicle I have bought

Almost perfect

Don't Buy!

For 14 months, 26K miles

Don't dare

Great van until EGR fails and shuts engine off!

Transit problem

I did love the car until

built not to last

SMART CHOICE

My honest opinion

PCM Failure

Born to Be free

Driving it for 3 yrs, all is well

Company Car

2008 Fusion SE sport

Not what I expected

Not what I expected

Bad motor at 17k miles.

Best deal in class

Ford won me over!

Very impressed so far!!

ok

BEST CAR I'VE EVER OWNED!

A College Student's Saving Grace

Never Again

Fusion Summary

I'll be buying another one!

hands down the best car I've owned 

Great Car For The Money, with minor flaws

Nice surprise from US brand auto

Economical and Reliable

Better than average

Great car

Best sedan or best car

Awesome Car!

Ruby Red 2017 Ford Fusion SE 2.0 Ecoboost-Wow!

Going Back to Honda Soon

6SPD AUTO TRANSMISSION PROBLEMS

Never buy a Ford

Transmission problems

throttle body failure

Perfect Mid-Size Sedan--Smooth, Quiet, Attractive

Fusion Warranty  Failure!

Great Experience still after 65k miles

So Far So Good

Ford cant build or fix their cars! DON'T DO IT!

This is a Ford?

Terrible transmission & warranty

Great Car So far

1.5 L Ecoboost SE

Looks nice but poor execution.

Great to drive and comfortable, with some small issues

Expected Better MPG, but is fun to drive.

2013 Fusion Titanium 2.0L ecoboost

Fusion Melds Tech, Performance and Safty

Do no buy this car!

Buy something else!

Follow-up on gas milage after 1,000 miles

Not a bad little 4-banger

Fusion 2013 SE (Lemon)

Still a few design flaws

110k miles of trouble free driving

Poor quality

So far loving my new Fusion!

SE 2.0 w/luxury package 6 month update

2013 Fusion SE 1.6L Turbo ecoboost

Great car

Great Car if you drive oil roads

Ford Fusion SE 2015

Love this car

Ford does it again!

Its alright could be better

No confusion with my Fusion!!

Best Car I Have Owned And Love to Drive It

disappointed

After a year no problems, great car.

Exactly what we expected!

Best car ever

1.5L SE with technology package great so far!

Fantastically Fusion

You can look, but if you research, you will buy

Fab Ford Fusion

Fun to drive...

2015 Ford Fusion SE 2.0 Echoboost FWD

Shocked is all I can say...

Fun Fusion

Still love it three years in

Surprised Me!

Should changed no gas cap problem free!!!

A-OK

Comfort + Economy + Reliability

Great road car.

Overall A Quality Car.

Great for a first car

Great value for the money

41 MPG

Great Comfortable car

Great Car but needed a new engine at 1100 miles

If only it worked

Great value

Ford Fusion great car, but transmission poor

Solid vehicle

Awesome Car!

I love my Fusion

Solid car but

Solid performer

Very nice car for the $$$

Solid Whip You Need to Drive to Appreciate

190,000 miles

Mysterious Problems Arise

Steering problems

A nice place to spend time.

Downsized to a Fusion and Lovin' Every Minute of It!

My Fusion

Awesome!!!

Great job Ford!

A Believer...

Best Car That I've Ever Owned

Big problem with manual transmission

Big problem with manual transmission

Great Car, Amazing deal, Ford is Great!!!

2011 Ford Fusion Sport (FWD)

2011 Fusion SEL with 3.0 is awesome

Better than an Audi !

Ford Fusion is Awesome

Watch out, bad transmission!

Ford is still the same poor quality

Not the quality I expected

Don't Buy

OK car......BEWARE OF THROTTLE BODY

Not enough free time to own this car

First Ford

Upset about problem

2014 Fusion - 10,000 mile update

My Ford Fusion 1.5 auto 6spd

The best car I've owned, if only for a short time

Frequent Renter/New Leaser @ 1,200 miles

One great car!

Transmission Woes

Going Back to Honda

Wish I had known.....

Fusion JUNK

Not a happy first time Ford owner

Just a bad Ford experience, never again!

Dangerous stalls

Poor Choice in Vehicle

Electrical and Transmission problems

I HATE THIS CAR!

DO NOT BUY

Comfortable But.....

Loss of Power while Driving

POS

I Have My Audi A6 Back

Great upgrade from the Titanium

Surprising Upgrade

Ford wins hands down

80 miles per gallon

Loving it!

Good and Reliable

Great car, nice technology, but some cons

My Second Ford Fusion Even Better

WARNING! ENGINEERS SCRATHING THEIR HEADS

A sleeper that combines practicality with fun! Ger

Infuriatingly User Unfriendly Electronics

Satisfied Customer

Beautiful!

Best American Car Around

Lacking indicators

dont buy a fusion 

What a disaster!!!!

Great until.......

Fun to drive...if it will start.

Horrible Lemon

Love the car - Hate the headaches!

love this car

Great Buy!

Still Excellent

Enjoy the car, but...

Great car!

Help, I have fallen and can't get up.......

2009 Ford Fusion SEL v6

Decent Car - Take a Look at One

She took one for the family

Great Car Ford is back

A good bang for your buck

Smooth ride, great value, and safe (Update 05/16)

Ford Hit The Hammer with Fusion

was skeptical  wow it made me a Ford man

Best car i've ever owned hands down!

Bold  Moves! bravo to Ford

3K Review

Eh.. it was okay.

Don't buy it

Transmission issues

Just hit 200,000

Sweet Car...

Run for the Money

Tried it, like it

2006 Ford Fusion

BAD TRANSMISSION ON 2006 FORD FUSION

Good Car

Insane Shift Controller

Great car but...

Serious Engine problems

BEST CAR DEAL

2007 Ford Fusion S 4 Cyl. 2.3 L w/auto 5 Sp.

Great Car

First 'New' Car

2006 SEL IS Automatic

Don't buy a used 2006 Fusion

This is the best car I've ever owned

NO MAJOR ISSUES - 10yr original owner

Been the perfect car

Loved this car until now

fusion

Best Value on market

Love my fusion

No resale value

An Affordable Luxury

Give the imports a run for their money

Still running strong at 125,000 miles

Great Car!

New SEL

207 Ford Fusion

Passed 1000 miles on my Ford Fusion SEL

Better than the Accord!

Great car for your money

Rounded

It's a keeper

Don't believe the hype!

Stunning and Powerful

Love My Fusion!

Nice car considering I drove a rental

2016 Ford Fusion Titanium AWD w/EcoBoost

Very fun car to drive

Ford Fusion SE 2.0 Ecoboost Turbo, FWD, Awesome!

2016 Fusion SE

2.0 SE FWD Deep Impact

2016 Titanium Hybrid

Fusion wins out after testing 10 sedans

Great Fusion & Price

Get Real New Car Value

Did my research - picked Ford again

Fuel economy let down

Do not buy an Energi

Fusion engeri Navigation is worthless

Comfort energy in HOV

best used car i ever owned

Why I Adore my Mustang

Very happy driver

SWEET!

I Love My '91 Mustang

The 1991 ford mustang

Stang

Great deal - great looks

Beautiful

Great Used car

Great car

Family owned since new.

Great Car Fun to drive

Great car

best car ever

Fox-body at it's best...

Mustang GT Convert

Terrific Fast Convertible

Even the Fox Body still has IT

AMAZING

Great Bang for the Buck

One great ride

LX 5.0 Hatchback

a very good car indeed

1992 Mustang 2DR GT Convertible

Modded '92 GT hatch

Good Fun Car

5.0hhh  my god

Great Car

Fun Stang

Big Car for the Money

A Fast Fun Daily Driver!

Owner

JC's car 

Worst Vehicle Ever...

Good Car

Pretty good car

99 Mustang "Limited Edition" GT

Awesome

MINE

I love my mustang

Love or hate

awesome car!

Awesome car!

Best bang for the buck!

Great Car

Love my car

I'm going to miss my Penny :( 

I know, I know, all 10's?

Lots Of Bang For The Buck

1999 v6 Mustang 10 year review

Best car Ive owned

A Mustang is a true Legend

Love my pony!

Amazing!

Dream Car

I'm sure this may sound sad.

2000 Ford Mustang Coupe GT

Great car People think its v8 LOL

Dangerous underpowered rust bucket

2001 V6 / 5 Spd Coupe...

One mean Bullitt!

Decent

Mustang GT Impressions

My 2001 Cobra is a total POS!

Used to be fun :(

I'm happy with my choice

281 Vert

a bullitt-proof review

2001COBRA CONVERTIBLE REVIEW

Best Car I've EVER Owned

good car, fast in highway

Great Fun

Loving it now

I will never buy a ford again.

100,000 MILES AND THEN...PROBLEMS

I LOVE my SVT Cobra!!!!!!

Great car

2001 Mustang GT Premium Amazing!!!

Great car, NEEDS GEARS!

Mustang GT Convertible - great car!

2002 Mustang GT Convertible

Jar your spine

modified gt

Decent Ride

Old guy with used Mustang

I Enjoyed It

LOVING MY MUSTANG

Ford has finally done it

Great Choice

Fun, Fun, Fun

My Blue Pony

Fun Drive

192,000 miles and still strong

Lots of Fun!!

Beastly, Rock Solid, and Efficient

Great Daily Drive

Dream Car

I trust over any new car. 

Great First Car

10

Favorite Fox!

Go Fast Cheap

awesome!

my '93 mustang 4 banger

American Made and Strong..

My Review

93 GT

It is my BABY

Great car

2000 V6 Convertible

Kick butt old school

unfortunate buy

Fun Fun Fun

Loved it at first...

A weak pony, but a pony nontheless!

Four Cyllinder

Ford Mustang LX Conv 5.0L

Stuck in the middle.

This is it!

93 Stang

Made to run strong and hard

Turns Heads

It keeps going and going...

1993 Mustang GT

Takes a licking

Awesome car! v6 power exiting!

I love my GT

1 1/2 years late......

Pretty good vehicle

No problems that wernt expected

not bad for a Ford

2000 Ford Mustang 3.8

Mustang Sally 

It saved me!

the moosetang

Base made me get a GT

Awesome Vehicle

Giddyup Pony

Not Happy

Disappointed

Love It

Great Car

5 years no problems!

Wish I had it Back

The dream I never knew existed!

old man's dream machine

1998 Mustang V6

1998 best bang for the money.

Project Car.

Mustang 98 Conv

Hmmmmm.....

Loved my Mustang!

1998 ford mustang v6

V6 - 2 Door Coupe

great car

Our Jet Black Stang!

Dry Weather Car

My first car

I WAITED A LONG TIME FOR THIS FUN CAR!

1997 Ford Mustang V6

1997 Ford Mustang V6 Coupe

not for up north

MY BABY MISSY

Awsome Car!

Fast and Beautiful

Good car

My Stang

Fun in the sun

Fun & Affordable

Reliable attractive commuter car

Most Fun in the Sun

I totalled out my first one

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR!!!!!!!!!!

Well worth the money for a first car!

baby Stang '92 LX Convertible 

My Dream Car

Best damn car out there!!!!!!!!!!!

Fast and Reliable

No more Fords

My stallion

Love my '94 GT

1994 Mustang GT

My 94 performance Mustang

Mustang GT

Red-Orange Mustang GT

True American Muscle

Still the Best!

Great car

Muscle Car Dream

not  to bad

Wow

94 Mustang GT Conv.

Mighty Mustang

Vrooom

question

LASER DREAM

An Overall Good Car

Venerable has another definition

AWESOME CAR!

TIRES, TIRES, AND TIRES!!!

American Muscle is Fun!

the original pony car

1996 Mustang Cobra (they didn't list it)

I still own it

I'm selling it!

Excellent car

My car 

cheap reliable american classic

my 96 gt

Think about it

The Money Pit

Great Car!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Not Worth the Headaches

triples galore

My mustang

Better Gas Mileage in real world 

96 GT. Wonderful car

one of the best cars I've ever owned and still do.

I'm loving it

Great Car!

head gaskets...

1995 Mustang 5.0

Rebuilding

Old horse never dies

Much more fun than a chevy

Love my Stang!

Best Bang for the Buck

Greatest car ever

IT'S GREAT

Piece of Garbage

Best plugin hybrid among all. But not many in the

I cant believe I drive a hybrid and LOVE IT!!!!

From Hemi's to Hybrids!

Buy one!

My GT

Good overall value for 15 years of use

The last of the 5.0

My trusty steed

Mustang Coupe (V-6)

Slow but Spectacular

Should be a bestseller

Great Car Needs A Few Minor Tweeks

Great elecctric/hybrid sedan

Magic Carpet feel of driving a car

Amazing

Even after 10 years, Still a GREAT car!!

1995 3.8L Fall Apart Mustang

fix or repair daily

ARGHHHH!!!

Very Impressive! Great style, comfort, gas mileage

Amazing MPGE

I am delighted with my FFE

Catchy title for Fusion

Ford Fusion energi fail

Amazing! Significantly exceeds expectations!

Amazed this is a Ford!

MIleage chaser

Energi plug-in is the way to go, two year later!

Great value for the comfortable ride

2016 GT/CS Premium Covertible "Carolina Special"

Austin Bluesman

Awesome Car !

Ford Warranty Sham

2016 GT w/ Redline interior

An ICON of FUN!

premium gt vert

2004 Mustang Rocks

Mustang love

My lil' hot rod

A Young Man's Dream Realized By An Old Man

The Red Babe

I LOVE MY CAR

Nice Pony

Junk 

Do NOT buy a Mustang

Very reliable!

Very pleased so far

Bullitt Mustang

2008 Mustang- FUN

Beauty And The Beast

Good but could be better

My 2003 Ford Mustang Gt Deluxe Coupe 4.6 V8

Convertible

Love every mile!

What a blast!

My First Hotrod

Most Awesome Car Ever Built

I was surprised!

Tweaked GTconvertible

don't listen to any discuraging adults

My 3.9L

What do you expect

Still one happy customer @ 90000 miles.

40th Anniversary Research

Finally

Good Car

Awesome in Theory

Very enjoyable

My 4th Mustang

Quick little car

2011 Mustang GT is Best Ford has built 

Fun to Drive

Great bang for the buck!

Just got a 2011 Mustang V6, Great car

Pleasantly surprised with this new 3.7L Mustang

2011 V6 Mustang-Hesitation

Best of the current American muscle cars

2011 Mustang

1st Mustang & we love it !!

Best car I've ever had

Way Better Than a Camaro...

2010 Ford Mustang V6

Better seats and move the cupholders...

2010 GT Black on Black

Great Fun & Value

Tale of Two Mustangs

Beware of Manual Transmission - Built in China and Problematic

Wow

GT auto transmission hesitation

My Mustang

What an awesome machine ...

Mustang Sally

The best American muscle car ever

No competition for the price

One Sweet Pony

Simple fixes could make it better

V6 6speed

Pony up for fun

Disappointing build quality

2013 Mustang GT/CS coupe

So I purchased the car of my childhood dreams. 

2013 GT Premium Convertible Fun to drive

Dream Car come true...

Went from a BMW to this, and thus far very satisfied!

Best Bang for the Buck ever

Best Midlife Crisis

I adore this car

The Vista Kidster

Awesome Ride

American muscle

What a car!

THE Sports Car

42 months and 93,000 km later

White Nitris 

Best car I've ever had!

My Favorite Car

Manual transmission problems

owner

A girl and her pony by Marea

Awesome machine

First stang

Great Car-Great Price

Ford won me over with the Boss 302

Amazed

Great Car!

I am in love....

Still a Great Fun Car for my 84 year old friend!

2014 Black on Black 

420 HP is Awesome

gotta have it green retirement dream car

RECALL**ALL Mustang Airbags could kill if deployed

Super car

Awsome Car

Happy Wife...

ford can not fix their own cars

Piece of Junk!!!

Best selling model, but poor vehicle

ford can not fix their own cars

Good car, but needs refined.

Stock doesn't get any better

'14 GT, no options

My dream car!

Not bad 

2014 Mustang GT/CS

V6 Auto base model

2014 Mustang Convertible

Car is great. Interior, not so much.

My "Gotta Have It Green" Dream

Dream Car

Old Man and the Mustang

Wow!

Fun and fast

2005 Stang Review

Get This Machine

Still Ticking

Great Car

1994 Taurus Wagon Review

Love the Taurus

Can't Decide Whether to Love it or Hate it

Good car for a Ford

Great first car

What an amazing car.

The car that will always be my first car

Running strong for over 13 years

The truth

Green Machine

money trap

I discovered why it was so cheap

Taurus

great price, reliable, not flashy

Great first car, too many problems

1995 Ford Taurus

Great used car purchase

Very good buy

pretty good car

1993 Taurus LX 3.8

My garage is the mechanic shop

Very enjoyable for a four door

owner

Great Car

Yamaha SHO's review

Ford TaurusGL 1995

Poor Transmission Life Expectancy

Got lucky

Lemon from hell

1994 SHO Good-Bad-Ugly

94 Taurus GL Sedan

ROCKING CAR

A car that lasts?

My cheap 1993 GL

I really like this car

FAST and FUN

Dr. Tooth's Review

Gets me from A to B

Extremely Reliable if you know what to look for

Blown head gasket, etc.

A pig's breakfast of a car

1994 Ford Taurus SHO (red)

Gone to Salvation Army

Reliable and Comfortable

3.0L Yamaha with MTX, 10th year

The Good and the Ugly

Love my '93

great car

1992 Taurus GL Sedan

I <3 my '92 Taurus GL Wagon!

somewhat decent value

Great Runner

My 1992 Taurus L Wagon

very comfortable car when it runs

Overall Satisfied

love it

Love at first sight. 

16 years and counting

taurus

1992 Taurus L

0 to 145000 original owner

I hate Fords

Fun 4 door with some power

Comfy but not reliable

This is NOT your Fathers Ford - the SHO

92 Taurus good car to own

thought I would never like ford

It still starts

Good car, serious safety flaws

The best mustang ever

Boss 302

Excellent Car Make Sure You Understand Options

Coming from a 3.7-V6, what a difference.

So far... I LOVE IT!!!

The Real Deal!

1 year and 15,000 miles later...

True muscle in the V6 is hidden, but waiting to be unleashed. 

Total Disapointment!!

subframe failure

Good car overall

Trouble

Excellent Car

0-75000 original owner

Mostly great, with a few small gripes.

Can't Beat This Deal!!

AWESOME TANG!

Ford recaptures a classic

2012 Mustang GT Premium

Smiles on your face!

6 Months In

SO FAR SO GOOD !!! BUY ONE IF YOU DARE !!!

Can't be Beat for the Price

1st Boss Review!!

Extremely satisfied with EcoBoost Premium (A/T)

Sporty....controlled aggression thats also a work of art :)

Custom Mustang goes wrong!

Hopefully your car isn't mine.

Ford !! congrat's you got it right

Love this car!

All I can say is WOW!

2015 Ford Mustang Convertible V6

New Pony is a real treat

This Pony has more than one trick!

Great Vehicle, But Terrible Customer Service

Ex- Chevy guy

The Pony

Great Update

Fun!

A Horse of a Different Color

Pulsating vibration 60-75

love this car

1st Mustang - Worth the Wait!

Vibrating Mustang

I'm a Chevy guy

Not my father's 66' Mustang Coupe..

First Mustang and First Convertible!

My sweet GT

Average car, Average price: It's a Ford.

Ford's Character Machine is [non-permissible content removed]

the white beauty

Perfected Pony 2005 to 2010 GT Series

Awesome Car

Awesome CAR!

I wish it were true

Love this car!

Comfortable Muscle

Great Base model

Back to Domestics after 20 years

Turned a lifetime GM guy into a Ford guy

My 09

Another stang to the corral

tired of the bad 6cyl reviews

love a pony

Sense of Humor

2009 Bullit - 12,000 miles later

Great Car

Monster

Love My Mustang

Ford GT Convertible 2009

California Special Package

Would have been better off with a real horse.. 

My Baby

Totally Happy

My dream car

Camaro Eat Your Heart Out

2009 V6 Premium Pony Package 5-speed

A GREAT TWO YEAR CAR

GT 2009

GT/CS

2008 Mustang GT California Special

Great car for the money

Piece of Junk

Long Term Report for this '08 V6 w/ manual 5spd

Amazing Car - Too much fun

Built on the cheap

Well worth the wait!

Super Reliable

Ultimate Cool

Powered by Ford

Dream car revisited

Michelle's Review

2006 Mustang GT

A Great Investment!

Get Rid of it before 100K

Stang tastic

Can't touch it for the money

THIS PONY ROCKS by Sean

Could use a few tweeks

06 mustang gt with a few mods

One owner

2006 Ford Mustang GT Premium 2dr Coupe (4.6L 8cyl 5M)

Fun stang

166K miles and still going strong

Interior still out dated

2017 Mustang GT V8 6 spd. auto Convertable  G.Blue

Sadly my 2011 Outshines my 2017

Love my 50th Anniversary Mustang

2017 Ford GT350 Land Rocket

Incredible muscle car and more!

Got rid of the Corvette!

Worth the money difference to a GT

The Ecoboost Premium Convertible

sweetness

2017 GT Premium Fun!

Pony car

Great car and great value.

Best Mustang Ever

Rented One, Want One

Best Mustang Yet!

Zoom zoom, 2017 Ford Mustang, 5.0 Automatic

2014 Fod mustang convertible

2003 Mach 1

2003 Mustang Convertible STD

great

Awesome 

Love My 'Stang

GT PREMIUM WITH PERFORMANCE PACK

A Pound for Pound Bargain

Not a replacement, but a whole new automobile!

Looks & drives nice, but........

Ford makes a good mustang?

Reliable as an 85 Hyundai

Not made for comfort 

fun car

Great Car, Great Value

Sweet shiny pony

Fun to Drive Stang

Sweet Ride

Fun on a budget

I love my car!

Fun while it lasted

Mach 1 of a kind

Sonic Blue GT

Surprisingly an excellent car

2003 SVT COBRA

There is no other pony car....period!

Excellent Value for American Muscle

You will not be sorry.

Best bang for your buck

BOOORRRIIINNNGGG!

Not what you would expect

the best car that you can buy!

Fun, Fun, Fun!!!

Major Problems Reconsider Before You Buy

Ready to Run!!

American Muscle

Best Mustang V6 i ever driven!

Buyers Beware

Terrible!

The year the pony got its gallop back ;-)

05 Stang

Just so much fun

New purchase

LOVE THIS CAR!

Lots of great couple not so good

Dream car Disappoints---UPDATE

This is "the" Mustang to have!

FAST Ecoboost Pony

only ford I wanted

2016 Mustang GT Premium ֠The Pony Car that Could!

Poor exterior workmanship

Mean American muscle with a soft side

Mustang GT Performance Pack, is better than Camaro

2016 Mustang EcoBoost Premium Review

Great muscle car for the price....!

I love this car

1st Mustang for the family

Nothing I'd rather drive

Best shape its ever been in...

MystiChrome

40th Anniversary

Reliable car 

Favorite Car I've Owned

My First Car

My Mustang gets 22.23 MPG over two years

Super Pony Car !

Bad Bad Bad Bad transmission

Good car for the price

It's a Ford, What do you except?

97 SHO Hi Mileage

Cant kill it

Extremely Reliable Daily Driver

love it

Transmission stinks!

PROBLEMS I HAVE EXPERIENCED

132000  Miles Strong

Nothing but problems

broke and stressed out

My Black Beauty

2001 SELTaurus 

Surprised

2005 Taurus Wagon

Paint literally dissolving off of hood!

i'm bullish on taurus

this is a horrible car

great car

Steady car

Exceeded Expectations

A Duratec Taurus is the only one to own.

Neverending Problems

Trash.

Solid car

Old ford still runs but it costs to run.

RIP 97 Taurus

loved it but it didn't love me

Importance of Maintenance 

2005 Taurus Transmission Nightmare

Love my Taurus

Very disappointed.

Very Bad Choice 

2005 SE

Beware Ford Tauruses--Transmission issues!

Nice car for the money

better than expected

I like my car taurus

Can't beat the value

Pretty good

Decent student car for the money

My Third Taurus

Troubled Taurus

Loyal Ford Customer

My second Taurus

Transmission questionable.

Great Car For The Money! 

2007 Ford Taurus SEL, Built Cheap

Best Car for the Money Invested

Love Car, Transmission Problems

2nd Taurus but, Very Disappointed in the 2007

Last of the land sharks

Great car

First thoughts since buying a used SEL

Door seals/weather seals

Good acceleration, not as fun as Speed 6 or G8 GXP

Not so great a Buy

SHO for the long legs, is worth the extra money and beats all foreign comparables hands down.

Best car we have ever owned

Great car but......

I love my car!

its still early but loving it

Very Pleased

An affordable "luxury car"

Is it really a FORD?

Love My Car

Absolutely the BEST!!!

Nice ride

This ain't your old man's Ford!

2011 SEL

Love my SHO!

Solidily built and fun to drive

SHO is Great!

Best car I have ever owned!

Researcher

Found My Dream Car

Our 2nd Taurus

New '08 Taurus Ltd.

Ford has outdone themselves :D

Very nice car

Great Car!

Old man's car?  Not really!

Not your father's Taurus

Solid Car

2008 Taurus

Impressed

Great Cruiser

I'M A BELIEVER!!

Best car I have owned

Excellent Large Sedan

I call it the Lincoln Light

The most underrated car

2008 Ford Taurus SEL AWD

Florida tripper

Six speed equals awfull ride

sofar so good

Great Car for the Money

Nice Car

Ford keeps improving

not bad for a ford

2012 Ford Taurus Lrd

140K miles- one owner.  read this one!

Cream Puff Cocoon meets American Tank

I love my Taurus

Best Ford ever

Great Vehicle

Ford is Back!

Another disappoinment.

Nice ride but interior need redesign

2012 sho

Overall Great Car

My Limited saga continues

Great car with one exception

Transmission Issues

Windows stick, really???

Just picked up my new 2012 Taurus SE today!

Still have quality issue...

Good looking great value

Perfect Car for Me

SHO me the money

Awesome driving car

2013 Ford Taurus Limited

Best reliability of any modern car

Solid Sedan

2013 Ford Taurus Limited

Best car I've owned

In the Competitions' Rear View

Cramped left foot

Love my Taurus

Ford as come a long way....great ride

15 SHO in a CPO

Love my SHO

Solid Large Car for Larger Size People

"A Real Full-Size Road Car"

It's about time!!!!!

Big Red

BRING ON YOUR BENZ, AUDI OR BMW

Worth the cash

Our 2015 Taurus Limited is Awesome

SGT SHO from Gaithersburg, MD

A little feedback from users could have been usefu

Poor gas Milage

The best Sedan for the price and American made too

After 2 weeks I still love my Taurus Limited

Uncomfortable car  -- 2015 Taurus Limited

Nice Car overall -- Poor resale

very poor quality

You gotta love the Taurus!

Large and comfortable

2014 Limited 2.0 Ecoboost Turbo 4cyl - Do not buy a Taurus!

Pretty good

AWESOME!!

UNDERRATED!

Best car I've ever owned

Sexy and Elegant!

Makes my work "fun"

The ONLY car on a market for tall family

Great car

A Great Value after Discounts

Amazing car i am in love with it

The family sedan sleeper.

Not a Ford guy, but I love it

Bang for your buck, great car!

The sleeper !

2014 Ford Taurus SEL rocks!

Overall a great car, with a few little problems

2012 Tuxedo Black SHO

Sure beats the Impala

Amazing car

Great Car so far

almost luxury , beware of goodyears

Elegant Full Sized Vehicle with Luxury and Spunk

Outstanding Vehicle 

Nice Features Car But...

Cruiser for the 21st Century

Great Looking Fullsize

Best car ever!

BETTER THAN EXPECTED.

Not a good experience

Getting ready to sell.

Love the car so far.

2009 Taurus leaps above 2010/2011 model 

Exceeds expectations

Great Car

Weary

So close, but with annoying flaws

Better then a Audi!!!

Chrome trim

Transmission slips since new

My Dream Ride

Love Old Betsy

SHO must go on

Second car overall, First car bought.

Best car I've ever owned.

Big Shift

Ford sho babyboomer new muscle car

Love my SHO

Great family car with AWD an the extra benefit of speed

Best in SHO!

Doesn't deserve bad press

Great car

Solid car, good buy

Great Car!

Great car for the money

Very fun car to drive!

Great Value

Great car!

Luke warm

NEVER AGAIN!

Cheapest of the Cheap

outstanding vehicle

Wow, a taurus did that?

TOO GOOD TO DISCONTINUE

Old, Cheap Car- but it gets me from A to B

Great car

Very Satisfied

I couldn't be happier.

Ford does it again

Take that! Foreign automakers.

Numerous water leaks...HELP!

Great Value

You Won't Be Disappointed.

Contantly broken

Good, Basic Vehicle

Can't beat the price

Decent car for the price

2004 Ford Taurus SE

04 Taurus

Need part time job for gas

Worth every 'used penny'

Smooth ride, a bit sluggish

Very Reliable well built car!

Best Station Wagon Ever

A very reliable car

COMFORT, FUEL, SNOW, CRASH

Functional Vehicle

Piece of Crap

Ok in the city gave me money's worth.

Not bad value

This Might Help - Eccelerator petal gets stuck

Big comfy haul anything land Yacht

Great car....except

Still The Best Deal on the Lot

Won't Start Sometimes - Why???

So Ends My Great Relationship with My '07 Taurus

A strong, spacious, unreliable ride.

I regret getting this car

Thanks to this car, 5 people survived a rollover crash....

Very good

Dependable Taurus? not so much

2004 Tardus

Pretty decent

Should I by a Ford Taurus

Very Pleased

18300 and still going!

Transmission broke in less than 30 days!

Purtty good car

Will never buy a ford 

Not my first choice

2003 Taurus SES Sedan

Not a bad car

Sad I sold it

It's My Baby!

my review

Great Car

2003 Ford Taurus SES

Not the best I've had

Best Car ever

Best American car we've ever had. 

Love my Taurus

Best Care Ever!

2001 Taurus

Might as well just flush all your money down the toilet

Reliable overall

This car is a tank!

Reliable 24V Taurus

Solid Car

Mixed Review

IT'S RIGHT

Lots of issues.......

Sad it had to go

Great car for the money

I would buy again

Car with most mileage I've ever owed!

A Lemon!

Roomy but no power

American Car

2000 Ford Taurus decent auto

Much better than earlier models

Don't Waste Your Money!!!

Super Taurus

198K miles, still going - did I get lucky?

The Real Deal

2002 Taurus SES

Lots of Bang for the Buck

Boring is good

Piece of junk

Great Ford!

Can't think of a better car for the price

Ford Taurus, Bad decision

Most Unreliable Car in History

Good Everyday Car

Prayerfully on borrowed time.

Taurus Wagon: backup car/ recreational car

2000 SEL, Nice sedan with a tiny touch of sleeper

Not Such A Bad Ride

Wishing in one hand [non-permissible content removed]

Reliable and powerful.

Reliable and efficient car

Trusty but Rusty

2002 Taurus SES

2000 Taurus original owner

The Black Phantom

Faithful Family Hauler

Good

Yes I Would Buy Another One

Excellent Car

2002 SES

170000k and still going

Great value for the money

Comfotable, Reliable, Very Strong Engine and Drivtrain

Pretty good car

'Old Faithful' will be missed

Love our Taurus

Reliable and inexpensive

My get me where I am going buddy!

Okay - middle of the road car

ppppeeeerrrrrffffeeeecccccttttttt

Shifty at best

Great

The good and the bad

Nothing but trouble...

You better be ready for this...

70K miles, no problems

FORD NEEDS TO DROP TAURUS

OK Car for the Money

Disappointment

Who said flames make you go faster

Hunk O' Junk

love it

would not recommend

Detroit must do better

sho'srock

Ford Taurus

40k and it's ready for the junk heap

Oh Dorris..

$800...

Lots of Miles

Accelerator linkage keeps breaking, bad design

Black 99' SHO

1999 ford taurus SE v6

kina pleased

Love my  1998 Taurus Wagon

Best wagon I have owned

Great Expectations

Great Car

Ford Taurus

'98 Taurus SE

1998 Taurus SHO

A truly great beater

Love This Car

It Won't Die!

96 SHO

reliable since 99...

High-Maintenance Baby

Taurus SHO

GOOD SOLID CAR

1998 Ford Taurus SE Wagon

My SHO

Great Car

Trustworthy old gal

Long-term Taurus

Never again

Reliable car

168K 96 GL

No worries

Best car I ever had!

Junk

96 Taurus LX

*sigh*

purrs like a kitten

The Green Monster

210,000 and still going

Fo  SHO 

POS Car.....I got a pos car!

Solid Piece of Metal

Commuter in a vanpool - we all hate this van

Transit 350 Med Roof with 3.5 Ecoboost

Steady as she goes

On the road  family

Great for a large family

Drives better than other vans

Great van for a large family

A Good Van that could have been Great

Ford stands for Fix or Repair Daily

It's a van, not a lamborghini

Babymaker 7.0

Great Van/Wagon

15 SEATER? NOT FOR HUMANS

She is snowhite

Fun little hot rod from SVT

My SVT Focus

Love it!

Sweet Surprise

SVT Focus

Lemon

sports car in disguise

Not made to last

Great car

awsome! then you have the paint...

TERRIBLE

Still great after 13! years

Whatta Steal w/the Special 2.3L Engine 

avg bang for avg buck

used car = wow

It Works for Me!

7 yr review: a reliable car overall

Poor Quality & Engineering-Ford Cops Out

Great little car

Top Flight Car - If Modified

Very Satisfied and Impressed with my Focus

Absolute piece of garbage

REALLY reliable

Terrific Car

Richmond BC Focus

Great Car

Ford Focus  2005 Automatic transmission

Best car I ever owned

Awesome Value

Focus ST 5spd Still Fun

crap!!!

Only one good thing about it 

Ford Focus

Comfort for tall drivers

Good, but...

Kudos for Ford

Ford Focus wagon

Revaluation of 2006 Focus

Focus is practical and fun

Great replacement for my Honda

Fun & Practical

First American car in 22 years

2006 Focus SES Wagon Automatic  - Bought new, now 5 years old

Works for me!

Our 2010 Focus SES sedan

Best Deal for the price

Not sure.....

Lemon!...Electrical Troubles...

No know fix for odd vibrations

Paint chiping from winter driving

Ford proves why they are rebounding...

Nice Fun Quality Ride/ Good Dash Layout 

Great car for the money

Great Purchase

Not like my old Ford Escort

Fun to drive!

Great Car

Customer Satisfaction

Ford Focus?

Value added used car

SEL w/Moon&Tune is an Incredible Value

Amazing Car Packs A Punch

It's my company car

Excellent economical car!

Very Satisfied

Love my Focus

A lot of car for a little $

Not so happy!

I LOVE this car!

Ford Focus Long Term Review

Great economy car

What a Great Car

My honest opinion- Excellent car

VERY RELIABLE AND AFFORDABLE

Good Transportation!!

I love this car- one of the best I have owned

Great car so far!

Our Ford focus at 184k miles

Original owner bought new

O-K until transmission went out

Good car

Worst focus ive owned out of the 4

No More Nissans

Great car

Great Car

Gas tank fell off!!

2002 Ford Focus ZX5

Dadmobile

Made in USA?

2002 Ford Focus ZX5

6 Year owner and active forum member

one of the best cars i've owned

Love thiscar

This car has been amazing! I will miss it!

ZTW Wagon with a manual? You bet!

Cute but always something wrong 

Worst car

Focus Wagon

Not Economical for an Economy Car

Like it but it chews up tires

374,000km

Love my '10 SE

4 years, 112,000 miles and still going strong

Go kart handling, go kart fit and finish.

Over 60 thousand miles now....

Happy

2008 Ford Focus SE - Nightmare Car!

P.O.S.

My Ford Focus

Issues with door latches, and truck latch.

Good Car

Great car

Love my Focus, But 9/28/10

Problems

Good commuter/family car

Updated 5-14-11 now 4-12-13

Do Not Buy One

Very Good Compact Car

Thrilled with my choice of vehicle PartII

22,500 miles and still amazed

The best American compact out there. 

The tire eater

2009 Focus SES Coupe: First 1,000 miles

Great little car!

161,000 MILES and still going

Manual transmission

Issues with heated seats, AC, and Alignment. and more that wont fit in review box.

Great little car

Great buy for a low price

Good Car

Reliable with minor issues

Focus legacy

very happy with my car , so far

Great cheap commuter car

216,000 mile update review

First Car

Coco the focus

2009 Ford focus

I've had my Focus for over a year now..

47,000 Mile Report 2009 Focus SES Coupe

What a car!

Great car for the money

Buyer beware

Great Car

Noticed no recent reviews- thought i'd add mine!

Fun, Fast but squeaky

Nice car!

It's an economy car

Focus on bang for buck

I love my Focus

it's growing on me

Pleased

Extremely reliable. 

Consider a different vehicle

Worth the wait, you wish you were as lucky as me.

FOCUSRS

named my rs MOJO!

Satisfied Ford Owner

An Often Overlooked Performer

Electrical system sucks

Great car

safe and reliable

Nice little wagon

A Keeper

Simply a GREAT car!!!!

Surprisingly fun for bare bones car

Surprising car. I really like it!

Six weeks with 2007 Ford Focus

Outstanding

Reliable and sensible

Reliable & Great Value

Love her

Great college car

Fifi

Average car, but will not buy again

Ford actually got this car right

One Year In and Very Satisfied

2005 Ford Focus ZX4

HOCUS FOCUS WHAT A RELIABLE CAR

Good handling, peppy, and cheap!

205,000 miles and climbing

271k and climbing daily

Focus for average people

Clear sailing

As good as the Japanese

More fun than expected

fun to drive

Love My Ford Focus

Great car when it doesn't need repair

Responsible Owner

reliable, stylish, comfortable.

Go alot to have it fixed

Fun little car, I must say.

The Worst Car EVER sold

Wonderful, Wonderful

2000 Ford Focus 4dr ZTS

QUALITY STINKS

My ZX3 is a great vehicle

Bad and Worse

worst car in the history of cars

This car is HORRIBLE

No Focus

Build Quality an Issue

took a $9000 loss to be rid of this car

I Used To Praise It

RIP 2001 Focus

2001 ford focus se wagon

Fun to drive work horse of a little wagon.

Mine was good

Great commuter car. 

Very Reliable

Very Reliable,  Very Forgiving,  and Very Good MPG

My First Car.  

Great car!

Note to all the poor souls who own the 2.0 SPI variant.

Best new car I ever owned

Great looking, fun car to drive! 

Great Little Workhorse of a Car

Fun to drive & great safety features

Not to be overlooked.

As good as it gets

Great value in a small car,

242,000 Miles and Still going!

Very Reliable

For what i needed, this was actually a great car.

Terrible car.

Great car

Hated this car!

Very reliable vehicle!

Avoid at all cost

Great little car!

Great engineering!Great car

disappointing fuel economy

2004 Ford Focus ZX3 2 Door hatchback 2.0

Ford Quality

Do not buy this CAr

2004 SVT Focus

Excellent little car

Good things in small.packages

Good car,i would like more power.

Fun to drive at a price

Great Car for Commuting

Nice bones but seating options are underwhelming

good for camper van

I have hatred in my heart for this vehicle.

A van that drives and feels like a car

to many small things

Great minivan!

Started out great but losing faith over time

Swiss Army Van but a bit noisy after a year.

I'm not sure what the rest of you are reviewing...

Wheelchair Hauler

20500 miles and things are beginning to fail.

So far so good!!

Roomy and Maneuverable

Nice Little, but Ugly Partner

Transit Connect is a rare hidden find!

Don't drive at night

Most civilized vehicle I've driven

I don't know, I friggin' love this thing...

Work van and it's great in SF.

Nice Ride 

Perfect family vehicle

so far so good

FOUND ON ROAD DEAD

Ford Transit

Finally a great van

DO NOT buy a transit.

Rear diff bad

$48K to transport rescue dogs wasted

My 2nd Focus in 10 years - WOW!

You get what you bargain for

Bought it for the Great Gas Mileage

Dual clutch sucks

You get what you pay for

Good car but having buyers remorse.

Se Sport Sedan w/ Auto 6 Speed

Good Looking and Zippy

4th Focus in 16 Years

Sassy Scarlet is her name

One big LEMON!

HATED THE CAR!!

Terrific Car

Transmission Issues

bought it and 3 days later.. new transmission

Another ford lemon

2015 250 medium roof 148 WB 3.7

Love the van, but beware

What a joke

350 transit passenger xlt 148

Dont Buy

Piece of crap

Do NOT buy this car

Focus Hatch Titanium

Early Report - 500 miles -So Far So Good

Fun to Drive

2012 Ford Focus- don't buy.

Fool me once

Very Nice, Not Quite Perfect

Transmission will kill you

Very fond of this car. 1,000 miles on it.

Lemon

Great Car

Focus Continues to Impress

Please don't buy this car

Two thumbs down for ford!

Poor reliability and performance

Silly gearing

Horrible

Buyer-Beware!!! Terrible Transmission

Fantastic small vehicle

Ford Screwus

SHOP AROUND BEFORE YOU BUY

So far so good...

Look elsewhere. 2015 Ford Focus = Lemon

Little Did I Know

Disaster on wheels

Never buy a ford again

2013 Focus SE

A great zippy one compare to Leaf

Short ranger

The Focus SFE is a Fuel Sipper

Ford Focus NOT RECOMMENDED!

Xero Gas

Transmission Problem Fixed!

lemon lemon lemon

Automatic Trans is TERRIBLE

2 transmissions in one month

1st FORD and NEVER again!

Second Guessing My Purchase

One Huge Problem

AVOID FORD FOCUS

Shuttering Take Offs

Worst Mistake I ever made

Bad transmissions - Ford will not fix the problem

STAY AWAY from the FOCUS

"I thought I was going to die driving this car"

Watch out for DCT auto transmissions

2014 focus se auto Trans slipping

Ford Focus & Fiesta - JUST SAY NO!

Great not so small car. Great MPG

Don't buy this car!

One week in

Worst Transmission Ever

Worst Car I have Driven

Here we go again

Consider something else

DO NOT BUY

Poor Car

Terrible car transmission is horrible

The Kelvinator

Love the car, except............

2013 Titanium Focus

Love My Focus

Some good, some bad

transmission issues that they will not fix

FORD'S REVENGE ON AMERICA

Is it time for a class-action lawsuit

Don't Be Fooled--It's JUNK

My second Focus with a bad transmission

Great value

Wow! Ford has really put together a winner here.

Great engine and comfortable ride

Champagne on a beer budget

First Ford! Great Vehicle!

Best. Purchase. Ever.

Still loving my ride

Focus Titanium

Upgrade from a Prius C to a Ford Focus Hatchback

They fixed the transmission perfectly on these.

Smooth Daily Driver

Traded my Audi A5 for a 2015 Focus Titanium

Third One

Traded a 2014 for a 2015

My 3rd Focus

Home run caught at the warning track!!!

failed throttle body @5.6k and 3wks wait for parts

No Ford, no problem

Cab interior designed by short people

Lemon

250 with Diesel Great Combo

Big PT

Great when you want a small minivan

Great, Practical Work Van

6 Months In

Blue Jean

New Ford Taurus Purchase

Vidio screen exposed to sun, hard to see

a truly annoying car

Excellent Value for a V6 Family Sedan-Still Great

Taurus is a triumph

Clean car

Beautiful car!

I like the SHO alot

Perfect for any college student

Excellent little car- 6 speed automatic SE.

A sharp lookin' ride with MPGs to match!

Fun Car!

Powershift Automatic Transmission Failed

No Complaints after 6500 miles

5 Things I Love & Hate About This Car

Horrible Car

Love the design - not the transmission or starter!

Still lookin' good

Just a great truck.

90 Supercab LB

Mephisto

Awsome Truck

I love my truck!

Make Sure You Need A Real Truck!

250 super duty

Ford country

F-350 Superduty (freight train)

More solid than a Rock

2012 Ford Fiesta one happy dude

Still unhappy with this vehicle

What you see is not what you get.

Car jolting and stalling

Worst car I have ever purchased

Terrible Auto-Transmission

Great car so far.

NEVER AGAIN FORD

Do not buy this car!!!

BAD transmissions

Remember economy

A little silver lemon!

Impressed so far

Great car for towing behind a motorhome.

It's like buying a hybrid without paying extra

Can't stop a Ford

Irreplaceable

The Best Explorer EVER!

Loved it, but hated transmission

Good ol' Explorer

My First and Last Ford

Satisfied Customer

Hybrid here I come!

C-max Sel

Better Than Expected Gas Mileage

Great little car for tall people!

Buyers beware

So Sorry, Don't touch one.

Great car

Outstanding commuter vehicle

disengaging dashboard

C-Max is a great Prius killer!

Leaves the Prius in the dust

Went back to American Made, Good bye Korea

Great car

A great SUV

Love my Explorer

Four wheel drive not worth it

Good, Reliable SUV

after 11 years

keeps on truckin'

Bulletproof, reliable truck

EXCELLENT EXPLORER

takes a lickin'

reliable truck

se with info touch

Putting the CMAX in Context

LOVE IT, LOVE IT.   Did I say I love my C-Max ?

Great Car!

A solid effort, but it's still a hybrid

My opinion of my first new car in 15 years!

Extremely Happy

ontheroadalot

Your Prius SUCKS compared to this car!!!!!!!

No spare

Good Car

163K

Okay used suv

Not found on road dead

At 209,000+ Miles, Still a Great Car

Great SUV

Ford Explorer EB

Great vehicle

good little truck

My Ford, Still going strong

Couldn't be happier

Go drive it...

Steering wheel controls

Ford is really stepping it up

Best vehicle I ever owned

Great Truck

a reliable fun suv!!!!

The Green Machine

'93 Ford Explorer - Fun to Drive

Overall Average Reliability

Good family starter

Corroded rims

Thank You Ford!

Like it a lot!

Best used car every bought

Love my 2008 Ford Edge AWD

Great Car - Fun to Drive

PTU defect

2008 Edge SEL 

Great Car with Recent and Alarming Issues

A Very Luxurious Vehicle 

Not so good...

Transmission

Love My Edge

Awesome Vehicle

Great Vehicle

I usually dont give 5 star reviews

Loved the car for 8 years, but then....

Poor AC Flow

Good Crossover

EDGY WEDGIE

CRAPola

Ford Edge

Living on the edge

used certified pre owned after 3 months

Ford Edge 2007 - Many problems

Failed engine

Nice at first until a part breaks

Report Rust Issues to Ford

problems with transmission, traction control

Awesome

An Edge Indeed!

LOVE IT!!!!!!!

AAAAAAwesome CUV

Original owner 07 Edge

Retired Boomer

One week in and very pleased

NOT a Prius!

C-MAX Go

WHY DOESN'T FORD GET RID OF SYNC?

2.5 years in, still love the car.

Fun and Practical wagon

Great Car, Great MPG, 50+

47 MPG IS POSSIBLE

It's not a Lexus, but...

I'm Loving It!

Love my new C-Max!

Fun to Drive, But There Are Problems........

Love My Weird Looking Car

New Hybrid Benchmark

Catch the wind!

Think My Explorers Days Are Numbered

The Explorer Just Keeps Running....

Great Ford!

k

MY EXPLORER SPORT

11 Years and still on the job!

Reliable

nice at first, then problems

It's a keeper

Still going at 300,000!

Great car

Quarter Millionaire

298000

Explorer

4WD Dog

Only thing to drive

Had it for 12 years and still enjoy it

1991 that I can't get rid of

Exploder

The best vehicle I have ever owned!

Rare

Decent SUV

Wezl's truck

Love the explorer

Good Enough

Best car ever

Still love it

Overview of an inspiring vehicle.

I Love my Explorer

C-Max 2014 performing well...UPDATE 3 years later

2014 4K review

Great car, worth taking the time to consider

We LOVE it!

Could not be more pleased with our C-MAX

CMAX Meets expectations

Great Commuter Car

Impressed - Still

TOO MANY PROBLEMS FOR LESS THAN 2 YEARS OLD

I love my C-MAX

Would buy again.

2016 Ford C-Max Hybrid SEL

38.6 combined mpg

It's Sportier Than You'd Expect

Great deal on an excellent city car

2016 replacement of totaled 2014 ford c-max

Road Test a C Max before Toyota Prius!

Excellent Car!

better mileage than I expected

Love It - Smooth Ride and Save Gas

Unrepairable

Happy Camper

Suprised

Ford Hybrid CMax SEL

Great Car

best value

My 91 Ford

91 f150

Show and tell

My 1991 Ford

Ford has what is takes

Great Truck

F150 XLT Lariat

FIRST VEHICLE

Most Reliable Vehicle A person can have

gear whine in 5th gear

SE Automatic 6-speed (review didn't have that option)

Fun to Drive but Squealing Clutch

Great, affordable car

My pony replacement

Tough truck

lookin good

Great Truck

one long haul

Heavy-Half

2012 Ford Fiesta SE Sedan (6-spd Auto)

Automatic transmission is a disaster

I want to love this car...but I just can't

Don't listen to them - This car is great

Fiesta s 5 speed manual Just towed!!!

LOVE this car!

Edge sport.

Rented for a long trip

Four months of satisfaction

Perfect vehicle for me

Worth postponing early retirement!

Ford Edge - Sport

Died 2 miles off the lot

Surprisingly pleased

Good all around truck

Great work/fun vehicle

Fun truck but a lemon

Bubba

MY Beast

Edge Sport - Almost Nailed it!

Happy Purchaser

In with thenew, out with the old!

Test drove them all

Not What I Expected

Better then I ever expected

Great ride, but transmission problems right away

OK Subcompact, Needs slight changes- Automatic, not 5-speed

This car is dangerous

Don't buy it

Driver's Nightmare

Ford Fiesta Failed

Defective Car

Transmission is awful, seats rusted, cheap car

Piece of garbage

very disappointed

Nightmare fleet

Ford Fiesta with UNSAFE transmission problems

Don't buy this car.

STAY AWAY FROM THIS CAR! WALK AWAY!

'99 F-250 X-Cab XLT 4x4 long box w/ V10

Long Live The Superduty

I can't believe its a FORD!!!!!

F250 Larait - All around great truck

For a BIG truck... can't beat it!

Solid Cruiser

It can pull

Great Truck

Great Heavy Duty Truck

Best truck ever

Now 10 years old

Amazing truck but has it's flaws.

grat truck. love it!!!

99 f 250 7.3

The Mighty V10

Awesome Truck

Ford

Dad's pickup

Just a great truck.

Ford For Fun!

Work Truck

Just a good ol' truck

Fordz Awesome

Great Ford Truck

my truck

Well-Built Truck

Great Truck

Build Ford Tough!

Old Reliable

Great Truck

Nice but not quite there yet. (dual clutch auto) sedan

LEMON! LAWSUIT FILED AGAINST FORD FOR TRANSMISSION CONCERNS

Nothing but problems with my Fiesta

Should be recalled, a real lemon

LOVE this little car!

LEMON DO NOT BUY

Transmission Problems!

2011 fiesta 

good but poor auto transmission

Not one of Ford's Better Ideas!

I always get compliments in parking lots

Fantastic Flex

Engine replaced at 109,000

Sync / Nav Issues

I got a lemon

Why didn't I buy one sooner?

Take care of my escape and he takes care of me

Worst vehicle I have ever owned

Gamble Paid Off

An OK buy..

Cheap Thrills

Sensible and Secure

Best SUV without the over sized body

Great to Drive

Ford Escape

Great little SUV

Better choices available

Want to Love It

Escape XLT AWD Auto

Excellent Compact SUV

Repaced a 2001 Jeep Cherokee Cherokee

Fun Little SUV

Transmission problems too soon

ESCAPE LOVER

Awesome SUV!!!

2004 Escape keeps on keeping on!

One COOL ride!

Love to drive/hate to repair

Money Pit

Good car, Good Price

2008 Ford Escape Overall good

Best car I've ever owned!

Better than her Mercedes V8 SUV..by far!

08 Escape 4 cyl Auto Great MPGs for SUV!  Very reliable

Poor Gas Mileage

Excellent

Really Very Happy

Tranny Troubles

Not As Good .......

Help Please

Great value!

Worst. Vehicle. Ever.

My 2010 escape caught on fire

Another Problem

In the Shop @ 21K w/V6

Loved it at first not sure now

Not What I Expected

2011 Ford Escape sever rust issuers & repair bills

6 cyl, but that wasn't an option

I love my Escape!

I dunno about the other guys, but I love my Escape!

Love it

DO NOT BUY!!!

SUV - ok, I guess; warranty support -- not ok

Exactly what I expected

Good but wish I had gone bigger

SE 2.0 4WD First American car in a decade

Fords Poor Customer service & Warantee

Solid, Fun-to-drive Small SUV

Disappointed in my 2013 Ford Escape Titanium

First Brand New Car

Beautiful and Fun to drive.  Disappointing mpg and electronics

Escape gets you there, but just not all your stuff

Escape from your Escape

SIX RECALL NOTICES IN 3 YEARS!!!!

Not As Good As Expected !

Sporty SUV - Escape Titanium 2.0L AWD

Excellent small SUV

60K Miles, 4200 pounds on a truck scale, 27MPG HWY

This car has opened the road for us to travel.

LOVE THIS VEHICLE

61000 mile update for 2014 2.0 liter AWD titanium

For Escape SE

2014 Ford Escape first impressions are great

Making the Ford switch

Fun Little SUV

2014 Ford Escape Titanium 2.0 liter ecoboost

Good design but crappy parts

Love it, if it weren't for all the rattles!

great escape!

All around good vehicle so far.

Great choice!

Good value

Love My Escape!

2500 miles and twice to dealership

Love it!

2015 Escape Titanium 2.0 Ecoboost AWD

Fun vehicle to drive

Love my new Escape

poor mileage since recall

1 year 3 months later

I'm in love!

I LOVE my Escape, but. . . .

Mine is the 2.0

Enjoy my 2015 Titanium 2.0L FWD Escape

Almost 2 years old now

I love this car.

i have the 2 liter 4. 240 horsepower.

Wind noise

And the winner is !

Fun To Drive

Going Backwards

Escape

My New Gas Guzzler

2016 Escape has it all and priced right.

Could be my next vehicle

Great car, great value

Just a few changes.

Modify your driving style, or you may end up dead!

Another Ford Fail.

Bad quality.

Decent car but nothing special

Great car, Sync 3 sucks

17 Escape Titanium 4WD 2.0 Ecoboost

Gas mileage not as good as expected.

2017 Escape Titanium now at 9800 miles

Never judge a book by its cover!

Best new car to date...

Great car

New Version of Ford Escape 2017 model

Very nice

Average SUV Should have more bang for the buck

It's at the dealership right now

2017 Ford Escape SE 2.0L

No Escaping the Segmentآut that's more than OK

A lot from a little

should have kept my 10 year old nissan truck

Could be so much better

Retirement Sunday School Transportation

A really good small suv with excellent gas mileage

Good price for good car, SE

Good things come in compact sizes

Transmission Defect

The Jury is Still Out!

Good Car aside from Defective Moldings

Trouble-Free in nearly 40K miles.

Good Performance and Value

Escape 2.0 liter titanium 4WD/10,000 mile update

14 Escape SE 1.6

Fantastic vehicle!

Great budget CUV!

Great Little Crossover!

Escape Delivers

Real Luxury Great Price

Great little Ford

2013 Ford Escape AWD

Love it!

Handles Nice, Poor MPG and Broken Things

2013 Ford Escape SEL 2.0L Turbo

Elect steering

2.0 L FWD SEL - After 6 months & 3000 miles

2013 Escape Titanium - Tops competition

Glad I waited to review my Escape

Love my SUV

First Ford in 40 years

New Car, Bad Transmission

Loved Our 2005 Escape So Much We Bought Another

Love Our 2012 Escape

First time Ford lets me down.

Great Car for the money

Love my new 2012 Ford Escape Limited!

Ford Escape 3.0 ~~Great Vehicle

Free Vibration Included :-(

Reliable and good gas mileage

Pretty good little car

Great SUV

A solid value

Won't own Fords again! (That Sucks)

Very reliable, practical car.

My Little Escape

Good Commuter Car

A good purchase

XLT is a great buy

Paint problems!!!

Worth it..

Don't listen to the critics!

Saved my life

Three and counting

Noisy and poor transmission

The Good, Bad and the Ugly

Detailed review

Research and you shall see

2011 Ford Escape

Escape Does It All

Apex Suv And An Asset To Any Owner

Satisfied 1.5 Years Later

So Disappointed!!

Beware -Think...Read before your buy

2009 Escape Limited a problem

Buyer Beware

wish i never bought one :(

comments on 2010 escape

I love my 2nd gen escape

Responsive Car

Run Away!

My Rolling Stones Escape purchase

Great Investment So Far

No more Ford products

One Year Later

Great SUV

It drives forever

A good fit for me

Transmission Problem

Excellent

Love it...sometimes

Worst Car I've Ever Owned

Too many breakdowns!

6 years and going strong

Awesome little SUV

My Escape is no acception to the reviews

Throttle body

Great value for the money!

Fantastic All-around

The best Compact SUV on the road today!

Drive Shaft, Door Latches and all 4 door agitators

Solid Performer

Will never get another Ford product

2007 Escape Review

fun car to own

Great performance

My first ford and I love it!

Great small SUV

Smart Purchase

I really like it!

Who says Americans can't build a car?

I love My New Escape

awesome suv

I love my ford

Excessive tire wear and very noisy

New transmission needed...

Excellent Value For Your Money

The Sanders experience

Better Than the Explorer Sport

Escape from low MPG BIG SUV

Great little truck

Catalytic Converter Fail

Good value for the money

Good to go

Not bad but not great

Used to love it

Awesome small SUV! 

Transmission issues

56k miles on Escape XLT and blown head gasket!!

Terrible product, terrible customer service

An overall Great car

TRANSMISSION FLUID LEAK FROM CONDENSER

Good and bad with the 2008 EscapeŮ

Ford XLT

Great small family SUV

Excellent vehicle

Failed Transmission

Great Little SUV - BUT slippery when wet

2008 Ford Escape XLT

Dangerous 

Accelerator cable broke while driving!

don't know yet

Hope the kinks are out

Handles like a sports car

comme ci comme ca

It's A winner

I would buy another one today!

great value

Best of it's kind

Best Car I Ever Owned

The unreliable Ford

Just sold it with 375,000 miles and running

Single Mother

Whats not to love!

Not too bad for a 13 year old car

FUN TO DRIVE SINCE 2005!

Disappointed

Poor choice

Daves Escape

116,000 miles later

my first ford

Don't bother with the base 4 cylinder

planning a long trip

9 months in on 2005 V6 2wd

A worthwhile purchase

The best car I've ever owned

Rust Issues

Very Dependable!

RUST! RUST! RUST!

Keeps Working Hard

My first Ford and SUV

Wishing I had never gotten it

Too many things gone wrong

It's not worth it. Run away.

Gas Tank

Bad Plugs

anonymous

great vehicle

Good buy

Happy Overall but beware of possible tranny problems

Lovin' it

Rusty SUV, But Good

keeps on ticking...

Ford Escape purchased brand new

I Love my Escapee!

First Escape, not the last

2006 Escape 3.0L FWD

Please read this before continuing.

8 yrs, 140k mi, no problems, love it EXCEPT uncomfortable seat

Not a Ford Escape, it is a Mad Max Desert Ship

Very Thrilled And Pleasently Supprised

LEMON

This Little SUV is a Bull

A Real Trooper With Love

Love my Escape

My [non-permissible content removed] ford

Pretty Good Car until 130K!

Hard Pressed to Find One Better

Ford Escape 2002

Nearly 130,000 miles with no problems

Not when it's broken

Not worth payments on vehicle

A true winner

Escape

I love my Escape!

Escape 01

217k and still going

If I had known

A great vehicle for the value

Awesome

Tough little truck

Bad transmission

A get around town car. Not one for a long journey.

234,000 miles and still going strong!

Killer Hotboxer

Don't Buy this Car!

Changes I would make

Worst Ride I've Every Had

Going back to Jeep

DON'T DO IT

Ignition problems

Wonderful little SUV

2002 limited 3.0 ford escape

Piece of crap

02 Ford Escape 4 cyl/standard

Buy this and your repair shop will know you by name!

Have always wanted an Escape, but now I have one..

238,000 miles and going strong

Good only under warranty

Lemon:Transition at 16,000 miles!

Great Ride!

Comfortable and Quick

Great Car but beware of Cap-less Filler

Life with the Flex

All was great a month ago.

So far, so good.

Great Family Hauler

2010 Ford Flex

Excellent 

Best Car I Have Ever Owned!!!

Ford FLEX - Lemon

Best Car Ever

POS

Love My Flex!

So far, pretty good

2009 Ford Flex 

Ford Flex Brake issues

Reliability issues and more

Already Replaced Left Turbo

Wish I had the great experiences as others have posted

How do you spell relief?  F-L-E-X

Overall, Hunk of Junk!

Quality is just not there!

Sticker shock

Loved it and now would like it to stay out of the shop....

Be careful of Stability control

2009 Flex Brake problems

Very dissapointed

No Support From Ford

We love our Flex!!

Ford Does Not Support

Love the ride but the brakes...

09 Ltd had it 1 1/2 yrs; starting to act like a lemon

Great at first, Then just plain aggervating. 

0 Miles to "E" with a 1/4 tank

WORST CAR I EVER OWNED!!!

Just little issues

Not a 10 anymore!

Best purchase I've ever made

So very disappointed

Big Change

AC STINKS AND FORD KNOWS IT!!!!!   NICE BUT PLASTICY INTERIOR

Good to great

Lemon Amongst Apples

The Edge has edge

Not bad overall!

Lovin' the Edge!!

Best car I've ever had!

Great Vehicle

Awesome Truck

SYNC a Deal Spoiler

Pleased with the purchase

Just bought EDGE 
6 day Edge Titanium Rental

Edgie

Best 5-Passenger SUV Ever

New owner - very impressed

Should have bought the Pilot

Poor MPG in Town

I love my Edge

Drive it & Buy It

Love it

Awesome ride!!

Transmission issue at 600 miles

2013 Sel Loaded awd

Car, Love It, MyTouch, Not So Much!

2013 Ford Edge SEL

Excellent Value in a Ceossover

Excellent Low-Cost Crossover

I Love This Car

Great Vehicle for the Money

Still Kicking!

I love my Ford Explorer.

My 'Eddie' has taken care of me

Trusty Steed

Best SUV out there

Battery and Transmission

sync or sink?

The Best All Around Vehicle!

Good performance, but QUIRKY and has issues

Love the car hate the problems.

car is great

Love everything about this car EXCEPT the cloth upholstery

Arctic Vortex

Love This Car

Why all of the Negative Reviews in the Press?

Loving it so far!!!

Great Job Ford!!

A nice step up.

Nice overall car.

Review for anyone tall

Reliable for 8 Years and counting 

Awesome Vehicle - We own two!

Watch out for the transmission

95 explorer

Respectable

Best Car EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

No problems!

Great SUV

Never let me down

They don't build 'em like this anymore..

Reliable

The Best SUV I'VE EVER HAD.....LITERALLY!!!!

Love my Eddie Bauer!

Nice SUV

Never Again!

Still Going

1999 explorer xls 4wd

The best SUV in America

The energizer bunny couldn't have done better

Great Car

excellent car !!!!!!!!

zippy toy with lots of room

I love my Eddie!

Oldie still going strong

A Beast!

2000 Ford Explorer Limited 5.0L Shocking Still

Where did you get your SUV?

Great truck!

impressive for $2500

My first Ford

Rock Solid

Great SUV

One Phrase: The Best

Best Used SUV Deal, PERIOD!

2000 Ford Explorer

This was my dream car!

Nice Ford Vehicle

Great SUV

Bad....Bad...Bad.,:(

Reliable inexpensive Ford Explorer XLT 4wd SUV

KEEP OIL CHANGED EVERY 4K miles and TIRES ROTATED

Bad Mileage "Gas waister"

Shockingly Good

Fantastic Vehicle for Family Fun

Will always have one in my stable of vehicles

2nd vehicle and loving it!

1999 Ford Explorer

Now it's time to move on

Great Bang for the Buck!

I love her!!

Reliable SUV

160,000 & like new

Transmission  problems

Do NOT buy a 2002 Ford Explorer!!!

Time to say goodbye to a faithful friend!

2002 Ford Explorer XLT - WEIRD EXPENSIVE REPAIRS!

good in formula bad in practice 

Think Twice

Terriffic Truck

Ford Help!

I Love My Blue Baby

my big blue

Expensive repair bills

I LOVE IT!

It's been surprisising_totally 

still going strong 2016

2002 Ford Explorer xlt

The Blue Coach

184,000 miles and doing GREAT

2002 Ford Explore Limited 4.6L V8

a follow up on a earlier post

Excellent SUV for family travel

My Baby (a 2002) has over 200,000 miles!

My Troublesome 2002 Ford Explorer

Transmission Terror

Explorer review

Fixing it all the time

As Capable for My Purposes as a Rover

Love It!!!

How will I ever part with it

Excellent SUV for the bucks

Wouldn't buy another Explorer

Still Excellent

Great car

XLT is for Me

Rock Hard

Terrible Automobile

The truck is the worst

A Classic

Don't buy this ever

Love it!

Excellent All Around Vehicle

trouble free

Explorer, great truck, poor owners

CAR

HATE IT!!!!!!!

Piece of junk!

They don't make them like this anymore

Oh No, Never Again

Explorer's Rule the SUV World

Go FORD!

Loved my Explorer till it Exploded

my explorer gets more love than any girl

Best Vehicle I've ever had

Excellent vehicle for trailer towing et 

97 Ford Explorer EB AWD

Our Best Vehicle Ever

Ford Explorer XLT V8 AWD

1997 Eddie Bauer Explorer

1997 Ford Explorer Sport 4WD

Only negative is you can't rent a trailer.

Affrordably Tough

Runs great especially for the price!!!!!

1995 explorer V6 automatic

Great SUV

Little Annoyances, But a Good SUV

I know this car

Sporty and Fun

Looks like I bought it off the showroom floor

solid performa

Disappointed

Very dependable vehicle

Common yet reliable

Almost 200K Miles Later...

good deal

Very Dependable SUV

216,000 Work horse

Amazingly Tough!!!

Sure footed ride

Almost 300,000 and Still Going

it's a truck after all...

Best 2-door sport out there!

JUST LOVE MY EXPLORER!

Love that power

reliable recreational vehicle

1996 Ford Explorer XLT 5.0L V8

1996 2 dr 4x4 explorer sport

1996 1 owner Ford Explorer 4wd 4 dr

Guess I Got One Of The Good Ones

Can't complain one bit

98 2dr sport 5 speed 2WD

Love it - usual problems

Very nice, but twitchy

One Diehard SUV

sad to sell

Great Car/Cosmetic Problems

Best Vehicle I have ever owned!

Most dependable car I've ever owned

Good car if maintained

Love it!!!

Not sure I will buy another Ford

Great 2 Drive

Great car for family

LOVE my Red Pig

A great little truck.

Best truck I've ever owned

not bad

Will Never buy a Ford again

owned it for a month, So far so good.

LOOK AT THE DASHBOARD BEFORE YOU BUY.

Bought this for the wife two years ago....

2 edges maybe 3 in a few months

Can't See Out

Works for me!

Best Vehicle I Have Ever Owned

Good for an SUV

Needs Work

1994 Ford Explorer

What a steel

Ford Explorer

1994 Eddie

Great Car If Maintained

I love this truck

WORTH IT!

Wish I'd bought the extended warranty

Head On Crunched in Half

Still Running!

Still Going

Really Well Done - 2015 Edge SEL

Powerful Titanium 2L

I love my 2015 Edge AWD

Rental good enough to own

Driving in the Edge

Better than any Toyota I have owned

Get the Drivers Assistance Package

Borrowed a 2015 Edge and a 2015 Lexus RX

Excellent ride and features..but moisture in lamps

Great except for front seats

94 XL 4dr Explorer

Great truck

Reliable, and trustworthy 200K mile workhorse...

94 - year of the BEAST

Worth It!

2.7L Twin Turbo V6 has serious ooomph

A nice upgrade

Fun, Fun, fun

2015 Edge Continues to impress

Almost perfect

New Edge Night and Day Difference

2015 Ford Edge Titanium *Guards Green*

Fun at first! Nightmare when things go wrong!

Riding the Log Flume - LEAKY NEW 2015 FORD EDGE!

Falls short of expectations, but not a bad choice

Big Disappointment

This car is amazing, and I'm a car snob

My Touch System failed at 770 mi

BLOWN ENGINE :(

Those nice Chrome 19" Wheel Covers

Would rather walk than buy another Ford

Great Looking Money Pit

I will never purchase a Ford

Quiet, powerful and loaded

wonderful

Great vehicle!!

Pretty perfect midsize suv

Edge continuous problems

Very disappointed

Wrecked it 7 Months Later, SAFE

Watch out Lexus, MB, BMW...

Edge was the right choice

Fantastic Edge

Gas Milage

Business Driver after 150,000 miles

Junk. Should have bought the F-150.

AWD SEL Edge 2012 a Great Consideration 

2012 Ford edge se awd 3.5 L

Do Not Buy an Edge

Great Car!!!

2010 Edge Lemon

Even better than my Fusion!

Great

Loyal Ford owner with new Edge

Big mistake

2010 Edge Sport

FORD - fix or repair daily!

So Far High Praise for 2010 Ford Edge

Could be better - I made a costly mistake!

Built for my Foursome

Please Think This Purchase Thru Carefully

Beware

Great car ,flashy design

Ford did their homework and deserve a chance!

Great SUV!

Reporting a malfuncioning

Transmission is poorly designed

Enjoy my Edge

Leading Edge? 

Love My Sport

Ford Edge beats Lexus

Love my Edge

Brake problems

What's the Beef?

We love our Edge

Air Conditioning problems

I love my Edge!

great car

PRETTY NICE

Nice Car!

Quality not cost

Porsche Cayenne for way less

Speed and Functionality

Nice SUV...But...

Love My Edge

What a Great SUV!

Space Age Technology in Your Car

Nice Ride

Ford Edge delivers comfort and quick acceleration!

Great car for the money

They keep getting better

Stil love this car

Fancy new car

High end feel  in a mid range SUV

Love my Edge

Centennial Edition

Won't go past 100,000 miles

Very Good Truck!

Drive/transmission issues

great suv

Excellent car

2003 ford explorer xls

Excellent Vehicle after 7 Years

Most Reliable vehicle I've ever had!!

2 time transmission victim

Beware of Transmission Reliability

Happy but with issues

My awesome Explorer

I <3 my ford expl. but too many problems now :(

It's the quality, stupid!

Best SUV

Third Explorer

Great Vehicle

Piece of Car

Ford Explorer - poor design and quality

1st Ford

Must drive to understand

Best One Yet

Crazy car!!

Engine makes too much noise.

Still loving my 2003 Explorer at 188,000 miles

Old Faithful

Second Owner of a 2003

Best suv ever

Chose Explorer over Toyota 4 runner

Not safeŠElectronic Throttle Body(ETB) issues

Upgraded from the 2011 Escape.

almost died in it twice .

Throttle Body Malfunction Turned it into a Lemon

Ford Explorer Nightmare

Explorer

Very nice

Overheating problems

Awesome

Just Awesome!!!

I Loooove My Explorer

Lemon - Ford doesn't fix customer complaints

Love it

Ford should never have released 

DO NOT BUY or LEASE THIS CAR!!!!

Winner Hands Down

My Newest Sweetheart

I love this car

howling noise 2013 explorer

2013 Explorer Limited FWD

Fords Luxury Vehicle.

Fix Or Repair Daily

2011 Ford Explorer Limited 4WD

Wake up Ford or I buy elsewhere!!

Very Disappointed

Throttle body died, keep away from this car

$50k SUV worth $35K

Shame on Ford! Faulty Throttle- Dangerous!

Hurts my Butt

Performs as Good as It Looks

2014 Explorer leather seats

Love my Explorer

Love my SUV

Love It

An honest opinion

So far so good.

Love this Explorer! Breaking system? Meh.


Unusable Parking Brake

Great car

What a ride!

A very good SUV

Love my Explorer!

Low Quality, Unreliable, get a Toyota

Be Careful Before Buying the Sport

Drives Like A Sports Car

Fits family and budget

Watch out for the EXHAUST!!!

Love my new car!

Test Drove Today

Surprisingly efficient and fun

Well optioned, functional design, smooth, comfort

ownership 2015 Ford Explorer

Best Car for your money

Awesome concept but I must have gotten a lemon

FORD EXPLORER IS THE BEST SUV FOR THE $$$

Awesome

Ford - First On Race Day

Good car worst service by almost all Ford Dealers

Best we ever had

Great Vehicle for Price

Enough with the alarms and sensors!

Have owned a 2004 and now the 2014 Limited

Blind spots

Good Car

The Big Blue Beast

i'd buy one

Love My Expedition

Can't wait for the 2003 model!

The Ultimate Grocery Getter!!

97 Ex EB 4x4

Update on our 1997 Expedition

97 expedition Great white.

Big Eddie

Better gas

Love my new ford explorer!

Sport

Good overall but not great

Very happy with 2014 Explorer

What is up with Consumer Reports?


Ford did it right!!!!

Great job

1998 Expedition

I love my Expedition

98_Exp

Good for...Everything

Knock on Wood-Great Truck

Typical American car - does not hold up

Best SUV on the market

I'm a believer

Dependable

Built Ford Tough!

Still Going Strong!

Ultimate Truck

Best ca I ever owned.

Great SUV

ford expedition off road

Beastly Vehicle

Spoiled by my Expedition...

19 yr & still trucking strong

Old Faithful with 200,000 miles

Best Car I've Ever Owned!

As good as you could get

Great overall

Buyers Beware

'99 one owner....

Not a Rolls-Royce, but gets the job done

My first SUV

Old Reliable

1999 ExpeLemon Eddie Bauer - Burned By F

Best Car ever owned

Best car we ever owned

Very unhappy

love my expy

1999 Expedition Eddie Bauer

Best vehicle I've ever owned

Pleased Expedition Owner

Best SUV in its class EVER !!!

ongoing project

99 expedition of the mid-west

Great 7 year old SUV

JANEILE'S REVIEW

I LUV THIS SUV!

Need I say more?

Love it

Great choice for Wife

Dangerous vehicle

Randy's Explorer

2013 Explorer Rocks!

14 years of driving

417000 Miles and still Going!!!!!

My Expedition

333,000+ and still goin hard!

Very reliable SUV

FORD?  Surprisingly yes.

On a different plane...

my Golden loves it too!

2013 Limited - Recommended

2013 Ford Explorer Limited

Towing Issues

New vehicle impressions

Do your own homework before reading these reviews

Best Value in safety, tech, style

Sync Issues - Ford cannot fix

No Regrets!

$42,000 and NO automatic garage door opener

XLT

Agree with Edmunds Short List

Excellent Value

Slick, quick, and legit

Buyers remorse

Rented car for a week

So many other choices

A poor effort in this class, avoid....

Is this a Ford or a European SUV.............

Who doesn't want twin-turbos in their family car?

Our First New SUV

BEST SUV EVER

A real sleeper value

Front seats are horrible.

Had an Acura and "traded up" to the Ford Explorer

This is NOT your father's Explorer!!

Surprised by How Great This Explorer Is

Traded my Escalade ESV Premium and MUCH HAPPIER

Great family vehicle!

Explorer Quality is Poor

First Ford - not very happy :(

Ecoboost Gas Mileage

Love the new Explorer!

Excieted at first but disappointed now

Explorer 2012 FWD good for the city but not for the snow

Still Going at 60K Miles

25 mpg???

2012 Limited...nice

2012 Explorer = Excellent SUV

Ecoboost model

Almost the perfect car for us

Rock Solid, Fun to drive, great on gas, value for money...

Overall impressed but....

Computer not functional

Explorer Limited in Naples

A Handsome Hauler

They lied

2012 Best Explorer Ever

Great suv

Ford Explorer Limited

LIFE NOT MORE THAN 100,000 KMS

Satellite radio and Tranny problems

2010 Design Quality Problems

I got a LEMON

3rd Explorer - 2010 by far the best!

Cheap transmission

The best Explorer to date

Used car purchase

Transmission Problem

2010 Explorer long-term review!

Trying Again With a Newer Model

The last and best Explorer 4X4

First new vehicle

Nice vehicle...but oh, those seats!

Found on Road Dead

Watch out for the throttle body!!

FAULTY THROTTLE BODY!!  BE CAREFULL!!! 8400 miles

THROTTLE BODY FAILED!

Well-made and Stylish Car but Interior Design Issues

Buyer Beware, many problems

Too many problems

More modern, versatile explorer

Lemon

My 2010 Explorer 

My suv

3rd  Explorer and going

I am really happy 

spoiled

Great SUV with a few issues so far.

**FANTASTIC**

09 Explorer- Meets expectations!

high pitched noise 2009

Love this truck

First Rate!

Great Car

Fun to drive

The Best SUV You Can Buy

Great SUV

Definitely a family SUV

WoW ford hit a home run!!

very good, I love it!

Already been in the shop

They hit it out of the park!

FAULTY THROTTLE BODY

2016 Ford Explorer Sport 401A

2016 Explorer Sport. Great Family SUV

C'mon man!

software problems

The SUV that has it all.

Worth the wait!

Used 2008 explorer

Transmission

Piece-O-Junk

Money Pit

Don't Buy

Paint Peeling

Very good car

Not All That Great

Awesome!

It's The Only Vehicle For Me!

Solid Reliable Truck

05 Ford Explorer XLT V8

Eddie Bauer

New Explorer

Love my Explorer

LOVE IT!

Solid Truck & Tow Vehicle

2005 xlt with over 190,000 miles 

Ok except for the transmission

Kinda Like My Explorer

2005 FORD EXPLORER XLT

Transmission beyond hope

Bad Radiator

Bad Radiator

You guessed it.... radiator issues

Radiator Problems

tyrannical tranny  

Me

Exceptional Explorer

Ford Tough

so far so good

Original owner of Second Limited

Great Family Car

Not radiator, check your head gasket

The car from transmission and radiator hell

I guess I am not alone

Great Car

Ford Explorer

I Like It

Ford vehicle

NOT Getting My Money's Worth Anymore

The Achilles Heel of the 2006 explorer (Radiator & Transmission) 

oh boy

Another Radiator Issue

06 Explorer radiator and tranny

Worst Ford SUV

Loved it at first, but disappointed with the poor quality

Good overall SUV

Never again

2004 Explorer Eddie Bauer

How long should plastic last?

2006 radiator/trans issues

4 radiators

Radiator/transmission repeated problems.

Common long term problems related to poor design

Buyer Beware

2004 Ford Explorer XLT 4.6 @124,000

transmission

Ford exploder

Ten years of owning

Everything You Didn't Expect

Great SUV

Good truck

The gold mobile

Lovin' my new car/truck

Quiet Ride

Worst vehicle ever!

Go Explorer

Beautiful car, strong, will get you anywhere

Almost perfect

Best Ford SUV I have owned !

Very Nice Truck!

I love this truck!

Perfect for the small family

Great Ride

V8 Lurching Transmission

Limited 4X4 V8, '07

The 200K Explorer

Ford Explorer V8

Great vehicle

The Dream Car

This thing rocks!

My Second Expedition

Happy Owner

Big Safe Luxurious and Thirsty

Love my 2002

Still luv it...

Good overall vehicle.

Good value, dependable product

Very Good so far

Great Truck

Great truck...Terrible engine

2000 Ford Expedition

2000 Sport

Great SUV

80,000 problem free miles in 3 years.

Driving '07 Expedition in winter mountia

Built to LAST

impressed

First New Ford

Awesome!

Great Family Vehicle

OK I guess

Expedition better than Lambda Platform? 

Not so good so far

High Expectations for Expedition

Good but unreliable - Really bad service

One Great SUV

Poor Road Handling

Not Bad

Only Drive Fords

ford quality

Very unhappy with vehicle

Disappointed with new vehicle

2010 Limited Expedition

helped my daughters family buy a 2010

Bad electric motors

Fantastic Vehicle!

2010 EL a joke

Excellance again

Awesome!

Great Rig

My perfect truck

Great Vehicle for the $$$

Great Evolution of Design 

Ford Expedition Eddie Bauer

Thank God I Bought An Expedition!

Chevy Suburban - Move Over

Do not buy ford

What is up with these windows? This will be my last 

Continue to be disappointed

Outstanding Vehicle

Mislead!

Upgraded to 2016 from 2003 - great choice!

Great All-Around SUV

Suburban/GMC killer.

So Far.........So good!

Love my Expedition

Materials matter

haul in comfort and roominess

Air conditioned seat - NO! Frozen butt - YES

Beware!

Wow!

AC problems

2015 Limited Expedition

3rd Expedition but my '17 Limited is the BEST-

2017 FORD EXPEDITION LIMITED.

Buy this car

overall I really like the 2017 Expedition EL

2017 EL XLT 4WD

Good car, but if you can buy a Navigator or go GM

2nd Expedition

Impressed!

Great Family Car

Awesome SUV built to handle the worst

2nd Best mom car!

Nice Truck

She loves it !

Expedition EL Review

2009 Expedition Limited

Great SUV

Love it

Love it for the most Part!!

Bad dash

2009 ford expedition

Great Car....Second One

2012 Expedition

A DO IT ALL FULL SIZE SUV

First expidition

You need more than independent rear suspension....

Best in class!!!

How did Ford do it?

Thinking about a new Expy?

Buy another Brand.  Ford having issues all models

2008 Expediton EL Was Better

My new ford Expedition Platinum Series

Room for Eight

Big Black Behemoth

Magnetic metallic for the wife

Expo

Mom bus on steroids

Believe it - 6 banger with turbo is better than V8

The K Ranch review

Outstanding SUV

Love my Expedition! 

Great ride

Great Vehicle

Ford Expedition is awesome 

suprised me

Expedition For Travel

Very pleasant surprise

Expedition Limited_2006

still alive

Endless Money Pit Do Not Buy

Expedition

Don't buy

Great second car

Still Love THe Room

Overall good vehicle

On my 2nd Expedition

2006 Expedition

Love this beast!

5.4L has serious issues!

Cherry King Ranch

Rest In Peace, Sandy. We'll miss you.

It saved her life, so I bought another o

Best Family Car all around, Bulletproof!

SUV Comfort

Previous Yukon Owner

2007 Eddie Bauer Expedition - SWEET

 New Expedition EL. Owner.

They got almost everything right.

Luxury on Wheels

Would Buy Again

The first to buy 07 Expedition Limited

2007 Expedition LTD. OWNER

Regretful purchase

Engine Lemon

Love my expedition

Very Good... Just Not Great

Stear clear from ford my friends

The Best Expedition Ever

First time Ford SUV owner

Follow up on Exped vs. Lambda Platform

NIce

Impressed!

Excellent SUV

XLT 4WD

Better real world MPG than our Tahoe

2nd engine going with less than 90,000 miles

2008 Expedition

Vey Pleased

Good buy

Major Issues

O3 Expedition - A Great Vehicle

1st Ford and last!

Power Seats!

Never Thought I'd Buy a Ford

2003 Eddie Bauer Expedition

Never buy 1st year of new model

Ghostly Roar......

Ford needs to improve. Last Ford for us.

Awesome

Best Book Hauler in the World

Best Full-Size SUV

Never again

Excellent built vehicle. Flawless towing

Awesome SUV

I Think It Willl Run Forever

>> BUILT FORD TOUGH<<

Durable, Dependable, Best Truck on the Road

I'm Jappy

Average as Usual

Ford Tough!

Not many fixes over 10 years

Depends on hwo you evaluate things

5.4L Engine Blown at 57K?

Be careful!

Good SUV

Buy Japanese

2000 Ford Expedition

Best American Family SUV

Reliable, Comfortable Workhorse

Ok

Awful piece of junk!

Just Great to Drive

2001 Ford Expedition XLT Sport

It did what we needed,  when we needed

Can ford do anything right???

---

Go on an expedition to the repair shop

expedition

Mine was a LEMON!!!

Best Used Truck I Ever Bought

Pulling 8100 pound trailer Max load all over calif

best suv ever

Eleven Years Old and Going Strong!! 

Tough as nails

Good Family Hauler, Bad Transmission

Joy, Pleasure,Work,Vacation,Towing,Kids

Great Truck

Unbelievable!!!

WHAT'S THAT LEAKING

Eddie Bauer

Great SUV

2005 Eddie Bauer

One happy customer

'04 Expedition 

Very nice vehicle

Expedition is a Lemon

Happy Owner

love it

super family truck

Sorry It's Gone 

Major Problem that needs to be recalled - Throttle body

Finally Got rid of my Expedition

you take care of it, it take care of you

Problems

No trouble

Still Glad I own it

Bought Used...

Four years and counting

Love my Expedition had it for atleast 7 years

Couldn't be happier with this machine

Great Looking Repair Job

Great SUV

Can't go wrong with an Expedition

New Engine?

Great family hauler

4th  One!

The family truckster

Where's the Quality and Reliability?

It works good for me

2004 Ford Expedition XLT Sport 5.4L 4x4 review

Love my Expedition xlt

Will Buy AGAIN!!!

One Tough SUV

Safest Car Ever

Expedition convert.

Best Ever Bolivia 

225K and going strong!

ASIAN MARKET SHOULD BE STUDIED

Would buy again!

Safe is Good

Review

Great vehicle

Ford Man

Passed up Lincoln Navigator 

Good Solid Truck

'Yoda' the expedition

2002 4x4 "5.4L" Expedition

Very reliable

200,000 Miles?

Reliable work truck

Expected Lots more from this clunky V8

The 1992 F150 truck - great investment

excellent value

Under valued

great truck

Great work truck

its a work truck people`

I'd buy another one

My Truck

good

Ford trucks can usually take hard hits

One of the most reliable and enduring vehiclesos

Best to drive ever

The truck you need to git-r-done

My Ford

Cycle Gal

4.2 6 cyl. not the best ford has made

Problems

Ford quality

Gotta Love Your Work Horse

Helluva truck

Has problems

Rust bucket

The truck is falling apart !

F150 XLT 4x4 S/C LB

GOLD XLT STEPSIDE REG CAB

Great Car

 I love this truck

RELIABLE TRUCK

Solid Truck

Yeehaw!

Mediocre

Old Faithful

Ford F150

"Best in class"

1999 4WD 5.4 liter standard cab SB

Lots of known Defects - Both Coils & Plugs

Well pleased with it

Awesome Truck!

Makes me feel young again!

Sweet Truck

Chevy can't win even the family vehicle race

Great truck!

I went back to my doctor in Nashville and...

. Sometimes high  and wi hi Miles don't hurt these

Great Truck

F-150 rocks

Good Truck, but could be better

Great Truck Since Day 1

Ford needs new management

Built Ford Tough, But Quiet

Ford F150 XL

First Ford Pickup

Good machine

03 ford f150

Worth the money

Over the wall

2003 f150 Heritage   5.4

power to tow

American Truck

Best Vehicle I've ever owned!

SUPERcrew

2003 FX4 Super Crew 5.4L

Great Trucks / Built Great

truck

Keeps on going

Great Truck

Ford tough

SuperCrew Spoils You 

Tips and concerns

$1000 for a tune up - no joke

Transmission Problems

Problems after 100,000 km

 Big Blue Truck

Heritage Edition 2003

Update after the end of summer

Lightning strikes twice

Love my Harley F150

Nice truck

Southern Comfort Haulin'

Dan's Triton motor update!

Best truck I ever owned

The best truck I have ever owned

Worst Vehicle I've Ever Owned

under powered 

Good Truck Just Typical Ford Reliability Issues

220k miles and going

2006 5.4L xlt 4x4

Who woulda' thunk, me in a King Ranch!!

Watch Out for Spark Plugs

Great Truck

owner

All-around Outstanding Truck

Ford Trucks Not of this "Realm"

Strong running truck

mixed feelings

Love this truck but you will have issues along the way.

Great truck! Poor MPG. 

Ford That Has Done It's Job

Four Years and all is Well!

Great Truck

2007 Ford F150 SuperCrew

Imagine That

Love my Harley Truck

Drive it like you stole it

Best truck I've owned

222,460 miles, and runs and looks new.

Low maintence reliability-great diverse truck

Ford F-150 Window Regulators

Make sure you extend your warranty

worst truck I have ever owned.

Nickle and dimes you to bankruptcy!

Harley Truck 07 4X4 GREAT!

4x4 Issue

Very Satisfied

Ford F150 Lariat

Old girls name is Pearl

Bad Ford Design

WALLET

Buyer Beware of Engine Failure

Don't purchase!

The best of the worst F-150 2005  keep the rubber

2005 f150 lariat

Good 2wd pickup

the best

1st truck, 1st owner. So far, so good.

Beauty and the Beast...All in one

Worst Ford I have Owned.

Worst truck I have ever owned

1st Ford I've Owned & Also The Last

Hands Down the Best!

Ford F-150 FX4 5.4 Triton

FORD F-150

It lived up to all claims

I HATE Ford after this truck

2005 F-150 FX4

Ford doesn't know what recall means

a keeper

Would not recomend 

incredible!!!!!!

Love it.

Gotta Love It

I tried to trade in....and couldn't

FOMOCO warranty next to worthless

All around good truck

Don't Do it!

Love my Fords

8 years of ownership

simply great

Approaching 9 Years and Still Going...

Nicest truck ever made!

Best I've owned

11 years and counting!

hate it!

2005 F150 Supercrew Lariat

let the buyer beware.....

Reliable truck

Over 202k miles!

UPSET AT FORD

Beautiful Truck

Honest review - 07 KING RANCH

Problems

No Regrets

Great Truck

great trucks!!!

MY 02' F-150 SuperCab 4.6L V8

Best vehicle out there

Still Happy With It

02 Ford f-150 2wd 2door XL

What the Heck?

Quarter of a million miles still OK

Great Truck

Been an awesome truck for me!

I would buy again

F150 Lariat Off Road

First Pick-up, can't go wrong

Sporty Fordy

First Pickup 

This has been a great truck!

Excellent Truck

99 F150 4x4 Lariat

Best truck I have ever owned.

Best vehicle I've ever owned

2001 F-150 XLT SCrew, 4x4, AT, 5.4 Triton.

Best Full size working truck I've owned

Everything but the plugs

Should have bought an 8

BEST TRUCK EVER!

I love this truck

Ford in Front

Hard truck to kill.

Best Ford in the world

Bad Tranny

Good truck

Truck is good value

1996 ford 150 sb

Best Truck Ever Owned

Great Pick-up

This truck paid for itself

Built to last

Why not - its a Ford pickup

1996 Eddie f-150

A real keeper of a pickup

Ford Tuff

96 F-150 XL 4x4

My 9 year review

Ol' Grey

Beast

F-150

Solid Truck

Excellent truck

Great Truck

Gas guzzler

Everyone wants my Truck!!

Is it time to trade in?

Satisfied First Time Ford Owner

Been a great truck so far

Ford F-150 XLT- 5.8L 351W

solid and steady

sellers remorse

terrible

Too little power

F150 viewed

Good

Best truck I ever had

LOVE MY TRUCK

A great full size truck

Old Blue

4.2L Engine

Ford eaten dodge shitin chevy

1992 F-150 with 200,000+

Solid work truck

1992 F150 XLT Supercab 5.8L

My Iron Maiden

There's a reason why these sell...

This Truck SAVED my life I love it.

Why did I wait?

Love my new Ford!

Beautiful but gutless

74000 Miles & Counting

Love my truck

Bad Investment

2008 Ford F150

Outstanding

Outstanding!

TRUE FORD QUALITY

I thought it would be better

front brake problems

Does what you need it to without issue

Trailer tow package incomplete, brake pulsation

Love my new Ecoboost! FX4 w/max tow pgk

Best 5.0 V8 Pickup ever

My first and last Ford truck

Junk Wheels 

Great Ride

Lovin' It!!

Great classy truck!!!

Wanna love it

Great Truck

Like the King of the Ranch

Get deal for the $

2014 FX4 Review

Love it

F150 FX4 For Now, Keeping Until Ranger 2020

I didn't want one, honestly!

Service Advance Traq

Very happy after 4,000 miles

WOW!!!

Skip the New F150s

Best truck I have ever owned

Upgraded from a Yaris

F-150 2013 EcoBoost Review at 5000 miles

Very Happy With Purchase

Surprised with the performanbce

Best Pickup Truck Out There F150 XLT Supercrew 4x4

not much of an improvement over the last one

A Truck for those that need a real truck

First Ford, First Truck, Couldn't be Happier

Muuuuch better than I thought!

A True Truck - Not a Grocery Cart

Love my Ford

Thundering Beast

Awesome Trucks

Hawk`s Nest  Ranch

Great Truck!

New F150 Fan

Best Ford Truck Yet

Former GM Guy loves his Ford

Rent and drive one before you buy.

Costly to maintain

Workhorse

Buy It!!

cool truck

Ford F250 Power Stroke Diesel

Mixed reviews

What a hoss

First truck

Love this Tonka Truck

Best Truck Made!

A wonderful hauler

Transmission not so good

Ford Not to Tough

dale earnhardt special  

03 King Ranch 6L diesel, 5-speed Auto

Even God Would Have a Powerstroke

Super Duty/Powerstroke review

Great (big) truck

Love my Ford

Powerstroke 6 speed

Dura what?

build ford tuff 

Shuts Off or wont crank

2004 Ford F-250 6.0 Liter Diesel

here's to the Triton v10

"Powerstrokes" Died With the 7.3L

Dumped by a diesel

Get Extended Warranty

My F-250

Too Many Problems

never will I own one again

If you want to move the heaven and earth

F250 xlt 5.4 ext cab long bed

Bought to work & play

F-250 Crew Cab Diesel/Automatic

Great truck

Junk iron

Wouldn't own anything else

'05 F250 4X4 5.4L 2DR GAS

First F250

great  ford

Excellent truck

Lemon

Superduty or Superjunk

Diesel King Ranch

2006 F-250 6.8 liter V10

My truck

Great truck

Great Truck

Awesome Truck

My Dream Truck

One Tough Truck

6.0 Liter Diesel Needs Work

Awesome truck

Diesel Disaster 6.0 Turbo

Live to Travel

2006 F250 6.0 Powerstroke 4X4

Best Diesel Truck Made-PERIOD!

Ford still can't build a truck 

Buyer Beware

Big Boy

Great to 100,000 mile, but not after!

Mighty 30 valve V10 + manual trans = perfect combo

Good Truck, Hard to Control

Go White Sox

Breaks down every other month

I don't understand all the hate

Sad to Say

F-250 with 6.0L diesel engine

2006 F250 Lariat

Great mileage for a large heavy truck

2005 Super Duty 4x4

Sweet Sorrow

F250 Violent,dangerous shaking

Run Away!

2003 6.0 PSD 4X4 Love It

Frame Protection

Wow, What a truck!

6.0l Diesel going strong.

Best heavy duty truck you can get

Fix or Repair Daily

Great Truck, Tempermental Motor

6.0 problems

6.0 Diesel Blows Heads

I cant believe I really bought it !

6.0 Power Joke Lemon

The BEST of the BEASTS! Love my truck!

2003 Super duty F-250

good as they get

F-250 Super Duty Super Truck

Great truck but  poor build

Never Again a Ford

Better than most

Even God Would Have a Powerstroke

Nice Truck

Only a Ford can be this Good

steering problems

STOP LOOKING AND BUY IT!

Best value around

THE truck to own

Once it gets started it's a blast

Why buy anything else??

96 Chevy 1500 to an 02 F250 4D 4X4 Crew

Best Truck Ever!!!

My 02 f250 5.4 Super Duty automatic/gas 

What a woman thinks of her truck

F250

Super Duty

2001 F-250 Crew Lariat SB Pwr Stk NICE!

Spark plug blowouts

Dependable Smooth Tough

Ford's leak water

Happy With the F150 After 5 Years

The Duck Mobile keeps on truckin

I keep raving about it!

Jack of all Trades

fun to own, fun to drive,fun to pull wit

F250 7.3 Turbodiesel CrewCab 4x4

F-250 Super

One Big Truck

Best Truck Ever with exceptions...

Great Truck

My hard working F-250

My ford's oil deal

Biggest truck I'll ever need

Very Nice Truck " BUT "

Never Again for Ford

Awesome Truck

Power Loss - Violent engine shake\shutter 10,800 k

Aluminum Body F150 Not all its cracked up to be!

Gas Guzzler!

F250 a real truck

Very dependable & strong!

Problems

great truck

cruise

F 150 STX 4X4

Great Truck...

Research the transmission before you buy the '09

Best Truck on the Road!

Quiet, comfortable, & safe cruiser

Love my f150

Just an average truck

Great truck!!

5 years and going strong

From Tundra to F150

Got a Lemon but a nice truck otherwise

Lemonade

Great truck with a peppy efficient engine

Pig with Lip Stick!

One Awesome Truck

tough truck!

A great truck

The Beast

Super What?

Diesel is Reliable and More

Working Ford

2000 F-250 4x4 SC Lariat sb 7.3, 3.55 

Ford F250 Lemon

Highly Recommend this truck to anybody!

Great truck

TRUCK GOOD -  CUSTOMER SERVICE HORRIBLE

Wow

My Ford Touch Misses The Mark

Very nice truck, 3.7 best suited for light-medium duty

Engine Blew UP

Great Mileage

Ecoboost blues

'13 XLT SuperCrew, 5.6' Bed, 3.5L turbo Ecoboost, OUTSTANDING

drive train sucks

Best of the best

Great, but the Competition is Much cheaper

2012 F150 ECO BOOST ENGINE JUNK AT 84,000 MILES

JUNK!!!

good work truck

Cabins in the Woods Need F-150s

FX2 w/ Ecoboost

DUPED BY ECO-BOOST MPG

Not so Eco Friendly Eco Boost

OK truck but beware of the 5.0 engine

Very fun to drive, great towing

Dealer uncooperative

2012 XLT Ecoboost 

Nicest truck I have ever owned and drove...but

Love my F-150

My 2014 Ford Truck

The 2014 F150 is Outstanding

Love the truck

This is Why the FOrd F-150 is the Best Truck.

Mushy suspension, mpg lacking

First Ford-- Last Ford

Don't get the echo boost

Fords Warranty is a bad joke

2012 f150 xlt supercab

Great Truck, Bad MPG

Ford appears to have a winner

I couldn't be happier.

Reliable, but there are better options.

Actually a SuperCab xlt, option not available

2014 Raptor

Ecoboost problems with power and MPG

Air conditioning problem!

2011 F-150 FX4 SuperCab (3.5L V6 EcoBoost - not V8 as classified above) 

Perfection for Ford

My opinion of my ecoboost 44,000 miles in

Straight Forward and Honest Review

Tough and looks good

Amazing Truck

2008 xl with 4.2 v6

good buy

2011 ECOJUNK

Talk to me after 100k if you get ther

5 Years of Reliability

Disappointed, Nightmare

Mediocre

2 1/2 years of trouble-free dependability

1st Ford Ever and Love it

Initial Review

3rd Ford Truck

The Best Truck Yet

 2011 F 150 4wd ecoboost experience.... 

Best Truck on the Market!

Ecoboost great concept, terrible execution in first year!

Own up to your problems Ford or we won't own You!

Amazing Truck

2008 King Ranch F150 poorest KR yet

Great Buy!

Super Truck Awesome value!!

6 Months and Perfection

Not just another F150

Outstanding truck after 16250 miles (26000 KM's)

Warranty problems

Throw away the Bow tie

Great truck that should have come with boat oars..

Tapping engine sound in truck cab.

A++++ For the 2011 F-150

Love The Ecoboost!!!!!!!!!!!

3.6L V6 Ouch!

What a truck!!

Believe the Hype

2010 F-150 King Ranch 4X4

Average.

2010 F150 XLT 5.4 4X4 Red

1 year update

6 years and still like new

Great Truck

Third King Ranch

Near perfect pickup

Loving it

Great Truck

GREAT TRUCK

8k miles on my 2016, flawless

Brawn with style

First Ford Truck

once you pay! have a good day! bye bye.....

Beware- Ford drastically changed their front seats

If you want the best, forget the rest!

New 10-Speed (Schwinn :) Transmission

Damn Good So far

Poor way to get a new truck

New Experience with Ford

I love my F-150 SuperCrew

First Ford Purchase

So far so good only 852 miles so far

Pretty King Ranch

Great Truck, Great Motor

One AWESOME Truck

Flagship of the Junkyard

2016 F150 2.7 EcoBoost Is The Real Deal

2016 F150 XLT 4x4 3.5L Ecoboost Engine

2016 FORD F-150 - BUYER BEWARE

Always been a Tacoma guy......... but THIS.

Buyer beware, research water leak

LOVE My New Truck

Platinum 3.5 twin turbo Supercrew 5.5' 4x4

Awesome small turbo engine / good gas mileage

2007 Ford F-250 Super Duty King Ranch

Powerstrock USA

2014 F250 Xlt crew 4x4 6.7

Well built...powerful engine

6.2 f250 4k miles

It's a Brute!

It"s Pretty Good, But

Wow!

Great Power Stroke!

It really is a 

Love my ford

Built Ford Tough

Excellent Vehicle Choice

VERY Happy with diesel

Built Ford Tuff

CAN'T WAIT FOR BIG MO

P.O.C.

hot rod truck

Hemi Killer

WOW!!!

OK

Unhapppy customer

Real Truck Value

my new truck

Great Truck

ford does not back there own trucks

Ford

overrated

Thanks Ford

30 years of Ford trucks, first bad one

one tough truck

6.0 Diesel

Lemon

Won't buy another, grossly overpriced

6.0 Diesel nightmare

F-250

Ford Tough

6.0L Diesel Problems

Outstanding

First Deisel - - It's Great

Not Reliable at any price

350 PSD 4x4

Satisfied and Unsatisfied

Ford F-350 Crew Cab LB 4WD   Diesel

I Love Mt 6.0 Powerstroke

great

Can you say "Class Action"?

Buyer Beware

You're Out of Your Mind

Problem with 6.0 Repeats Itself

Terrible

Quality policy needs review

ok

F-350 Crew 4x4 w/ 6.0 and new 5 spd. ato

One

2001 F250SD T.urbo Diesel  Larait 4x4

Outstanding

F350 SUPER TRUCK

2001F350Crew

6.0 is worthless

diesel 6.0

Go Ford or go Home

Love my truck hate rust

Awesome

Dream Truck

2001 F250SD T.urbo Diesel  Larait 4x4

HAPPY WITH F350

Greatest Ride Ever

Super truck

big ash truck

Great Truck

Good Looker

it doesn't get any better

2002 SUPERDUTY TRANY PROB.

USS Smith

Luv My  Ford Dually

Crew Cab Dually

Best money I ever spent.

Need to tow? Ford PSD is the way to go!

Great truck

2dr F350 Turbodiesel 4x4 w/auto

Bad Experiences with the Turbo Diesel

Unbelieveable Towing

F350 SRW Diesel

can it be any better.

Wonder why there's no option for the 7.3 on this site? oh well...

2002 F350 CC LB 4X4

Transmission problem

Excellent!!!!!!!!!!!

It's a keeper

My dark blue 2000 F-350 diesel 4x4 truck

Great Truck

unreliable pig

Much better than my old Z 71

Simply the Best!!

My F-350 4WD CrewCab Dually LB

Built FORD TOUGH !!!!!!!

Super Duty eats the competition

100K and going strong

ford you can do better

Best Truck Ever

Got Power!

Powerhouse

The Best Dam Truck Bar None

Harley Hauler V10

No Truck Any Better!

Built Ford Tough

GREAT TRUCK

Black F-350

One tough truck

Awesome

My second Ford diesel

Last ruck I ever "NEED" to buy

Love my super duty!!!!!!

A real tough truck

He's Going To Buy Another One!

1999 Ford F-350 with7.3L power stroke diesel

worst truck i've ever owned

What a great truck

Truck-See SuperDuty 4x4 F-350

well built truck

Front Seat Problems

F350 Crew-Cab 4WD Dually

big f350

f-350

I'll never buy another.

The Beast

BEST FORD TRUCK YET

Love my truck...don't like Ford

Solid Duty

The BEAST!

Great work truck, but a beast to drive

'12 King Ranch FX4

Not Tough Enough

Mikey

Super Super Duty

Amazing Power

Shortbed non hitch capable

2011 F-250 Lariat CrewCab Long bed

F250 2011 Super Duty XLT 2wd 'tow equip'

Glad iI waited

I have on Intermittent problem

F-250 XLT Crew Cab 6.7 Power Stroke

Love my truck!!

2011 Update

What an Amazing Truck> Couldn't be happier

Should have stayed a GM man

Not impressed

2011 F-250 Amazing

2011 F250 LEMON

2011 F250 (6.7 diesel) Tow Control

Great truck!!

F-250 Diesel

F250 Behind the times

A real Truck...not a wannabe toy truck!

Ford still my choice

54 miles and found on road dead

New 2015 Everyday driver

BEST TRUCK IVE EVER OWNED

Buyer beware of FORD

Lives up to expectations every day

ok work truck, dont expect to put much on the back

Overall good truck

terrible truck

Better off with a Chevy

White Elephant

11.8 mpg

Engine

Good all round

Love this beast

Work truck

Perfect Truck to own!

Good ol' Truck

Exhaust Cleaning Bites

Happy Fx4 diesel owner

fuel mileage stinks

The Multi-Tool of Trucks

Warning of issue with Ford Diesel Engines

Reliable

2008 F250 Blown Motor

2008 F-250 Super Duty 6.4 Desial Super Cab Great Vehicle After Non Factory Additions

New Super Duty

fuel pump failure....

2009 F250 XLT Crew Cab (6.4) automatic 4x4

Satisfied in Utah

fast 

strong a - -  Truck

F-250 Lariet

2009 Ford F250 Harley Davison 6.4l diese

2009 f250 5.4 crew cab

No more Ford for me

Truck is somewhat disappointed me

Ford Tough For Sure

Great Truck

Another Great Ford

Great Ford Experience

Poor Man's Diesel

Talked my husband into this truck

Brakes drags

I wish I had not gotten rid of my Dodge!

Uncomfortable

Excellent Truck

Not as much of a Work Truck as the Silverado

Awesome!!

Too new to say much about it:

2016 SD 4WD lariat SB

Great truck overall.

4,000 miles in three weeks

Service on F250 is the worst

F250 4x 6.7 TD Platinum FX4

Ford 6.7 plat

LOVE getting back to the basics with a Ford truck

PowerStroke isn't just a gimmicky name

What a beast

I basically like it

Great truck

You get what you pay for.

Great Ford as usual

Dream Truck and starting a new chapter in our live

F-250 is just what we needed!

F-350 Diesel 4x2

Wow I finally get it!

2005 Super Duty Evaluation

2004 F-350 Joy To Drive  Workhorse

David's Review

2008 Ford F350 Superduty Diesel 6.4 liter FX4 

Poor rust protection

F-350 waste of money

Not So Super Duty

Junk

V10 Dualies

2005 Super Duty

Good Idea, Bad Engineering.

SuperDuty vs Ram

F-350 Initial Opinions

 Poorly Assembled and poor quality

Transmission troubles are real

FUN ALERT FUN ALERT! Auto Transmission only people need not apply! 

Think twice

A much improved year for the Fiesta!

Small but a blast

Fantastic Car - Until the Front Gets Hit

What a great car

Mean green machine ROCKS

A relationship to build over time

Feels like a MUCH larger car

First Ford

2015 Ford Fiesta SE 1.6L

Great car, great value - tight, quiet ride

Superior hot hatch

Deroyadams 

A quick test

My ford fiesta

Fun car

Worst car I ever owned

Best car I've ever driven

Best driver's car under 30k

Great Performance with some reliability issues.

2015 Ford Fiesta  SE sedan

eco boost 1.0 liter

FUN and Sporty

2015 Fiesta SE HB 1.0 Ecoboost 5spd

the little buggy

Loving my car

The Grown-ups Go-Cart

So far so good 2015 F350 dually 6.7L diesel

2015 King Ranch

Horse farm to wine festival.

unhappy wife unhappy me happy wife lucky lucky me

Do some real research before buying the Fiesta.

2014 fiesta

Great Little Car

2014 Ford Fiesta Titanuim Hatchback in Blue Candy!

Automatic

Absolute fun on four wheels 

Early F-450 Review

Re-Review,  I have a change of mind...

hunk of junk that looks good!!

The Best  I Ever Owned !!!!

Good tow unit

Garbage Truck!

A nice ride for a big truck!

Sweet horse hauler

Dont Let Ford Keep Doing This

F-450 is King of the Road

Great truck except for the engine

DO NOT BUY !!!

tough trucks

My last F-450 review... it's DEAD! re-re-review

Junk

You've never driven a Ford like this one!

Love. This. Car.

You have to learn how to drive this car

First time ST buy

Best Value in America!

Found On the Road Dead

Another one bites the dust

 Piece of junk Stay away dont buy 

Probably worst mistake in my life

F450 nothing but trouble

Ford Trucks Suck!

MacDaddy Rocks the Road

It's a "tame" beast

Ford Super Duty Excels

no more 6.0 

Ford F-350 Problems

2007 Noth'n but a 2006

Best truck yet

Switched to Ford

My First Ford Truck

It's 3 YR / 36,000, not 36,001 or 36,002!

F 350 Shuts down with less than 7000 Miles

F-350 Nightmare

why not to buy a ford

I love the car

Awesome little beast

Ford Fiesta-Great bang for the buck!

Finally a fun American small car

Excellent commuter vehicle

Front Wheel Drive blows.

An Amazingly well designed piece of Car.

If the following are true, you probably want one:

No other car like the Fiesta ST

Too Much Fun!

1.0 Ecoboost - Fun, cheap, quick, fun

insync/PDF

love this monster

A impressive 350 & this is my first Ford

F350 diesel woes

2009 F-350 Super Duty FX4

F350 is a workhorse

A+

Excellent Tow Vehicle

2014 Ford F350 XL SRW 4x4 6.2L Reg. Cab w/ 4.30s

Sport fun, sore right elbow

I love my four door "sports" car!

Got what I wanted but???

first 5000 miles

Ford Fiesta 2016

Super Diesel, Awesome Truck

Great 6.7 diesel

quality not what expected

A Brute with style

Things to change

So-So

Best Ford Yet- New 6.7L Diesel

Owned this truck for 4 years

WE ARE SUING!

motor and body are junk

Does exactly what it was purchased for.

Ford 2008 f350 6.4 turbo diesel dually 4dr

My 08 Power Stroke

Ford won't honor warranty

Not Really Super Duty

Super Dooty

Worst vehicle we have ever owned!

Best Truck I've Ever Owned!

08 F-350 6.4 Diesel

No More Fords

Junk

Why won't Ford stand behind it?

Ford F-350 Diesel Junk

Huge leap forward comparible to 1999

suckyF6.0

SB SRW, V-10

Mixed Thoughts

Great truck

F-350 Crew Cab Dually Diesel 8' Bed Lariat

Wish I had my 99 back

Still built Ford Tough

Best truck built tough

2006 XLT F350 DUALLY V-10

Great Heavy Duty Truck


2006 F350 SRW Diesel 6.0L SB 4x4 Lariat

Review of 2006 F-350

Love my Superduty

A Kick to Drive!

This truck kicks...

Why No Diesel F-350's ?

Great Heavy Duty Truck

So Sad to Luv Ford

STRONG TRUCK

The 6.7L Diesel is awesome.

2016 F-350 CC DRW 4x4 6.7L Diesel

Best Heavy Duty Truck Hands Down!

2005 F-350 Crew- H-D Edition

2005 350 diesel

Mine is a Diesel

F-350 Workhorse Diesel

Bad safety features

help please

What the happened to Fords?

the lemons

Great Truck

No Problems

Love my 2011 Ford F450 King Ranch

2011 F450 Lariat Dually - What a HORSE!

Never Thought I'd Drive a Ford...

Head rest a failure

It's okay, but there are better choices...

Boom, engine blown due to turbos!

Improve the ride

Flex:  Not Great to Look At But Superior to Drive

After 30 years of Ford family, this is last Ford

wheel alignment

Flex

First Ford I have owned, LOVE it

2nd Flex but just leased a Buick Enclave

Should I buy a Ford again

Liked the flex until it tried to kill my family!

Love Our Ford Flex

Great design, BIG room, electronics nightare

Love My Flex!

Flex - able

Love me some boost

Amazing ride the flex has it all.

Slick Ride

Back to my Flex

Appearance Package worth every penny

not another minivan!

Great car

Flex number 2

The best family hauler!

Become FLEXible in your opinion of this vehicle

Big yet fun to drive.

Wife loves it  kids hate it  dealer sucks

Love my flex!!!

Always something wrong and poor mpg

"We are either a minivan family or a Flex family"

Short rides only

1 year after purchase & $7500 in costs

Horrendous MPG and Bad Customer Service

FLEX a great value

1 &1/2 years later -2014 Limited Flex w/eco boost review

Convinced the wife

Great Vehicle

Roomy, comfortable and great highway cruiser

Happy Camper

My First Ford; Won't  Be My Last

Great vehicle overall beware dealer transfers!

Great Vehicles

Very Pleased!!

We test drove everything, selected Ford Flex Limited

2011 Ford Flex California Review

Better than what I had read

My Flex

Ford Flex

No Boost Needed

Ford's keep getting better

Another Great Flex

My Amazing Flex SE Ingot silver metallic charcoal black interior

Flex Facts

Very Good...Almost Great

Love my Flex

$3,000 repair for a 2012 with 70 thousand miles

2012 Flex with 55k miles

2012 Flex Limited

Another great Ford Flex

Fabulous Flex

Retirement Guy

be careful!

Skeptic Turned Convert

 2012 Flex Owner

Not your Father's station wagon

Nicest Car ive owned

Love the Flex

2016 Ford Flex Limited "My Superman!!!"

The best towing machine you can buy!

Best family car

My future ride!

Serious issues!

2016 Ford Flex Limited "My Superman!!!"

I'm in love with my Ford Flex

Great Hauler

You will not find a better vehicle

Time will tell

The KING of Pickup Trucks!

Love my ride

Non-user friendly

Harley Davidson F-450

Lariat F-450!

Rented Once, Just Once

Dodge This Rental!

Dodge the dart!

A Worthy Commuter Car

Great small car

Dart Limited

Great Car

Fun Little Commuter Car

I love my dart :)

Love the Dart

Great Bargin

Good car, could be better for price.

Worst choice i have made.

Lemon

Some redeeming features but think twice

Recently rented this car for two weeks

I tried them both

Good car for a Good price

2013 Dodge Dart Ralleye 1.4l Turbo, 6 Spd Manual

Do NOT Buy A Dart!!!

Nothing but problems

Great car

Good design but poor quality

one of the best vehicles I ever owned!!

Town & Country

Chrylser Minivan

Great car; buy extra transmissions

Wonderful investment

Happy

Excellent

The best minivan

A Chrysler Lemon

Remarkably Exceptional

Great

Great car; buy extra transmissions

town and country

1994 TOWN & COUNTRY MINI VAN

Oldie but a Goodie

Ellegance

Town&Country Van

Chrysler Town & Country Review

I'll never buy another Chrysler producr

Good car for the money

Top of the crop!

I would buy another in a heartbeat! 

'93 T&C

Love mine

When it rains I drown!

For transport

Great van for out door 

Very nice, stylish, daily driver.

Great for a new driver!

More midsized than compact!!

One word RECALL!

Loaded 2015 Limited for econobox price

My 2015 Dodge Dart SE

Less than 300 miles and trouble already

Buying this car is like rolling the dice!

Great sporty car for the money

2015 Dodge Aero Dart

2013 Dodge Dart Ralleye 1.4l Turbo Auto Trans

Why the Dart is underrated

Sporty economical  comfort

Rallye 1.4 turbo 

It's a computer/laptop on wheels

Solid Car with Alpha DNA

A quick, sturdy, wonderful car

Fabulous ride

Great car for the money

I LOVE THIS CAR

Great value!

Bad Craftsmanship

I would buy elsewhere if I were you.

Major problems

going on the second year now

Worst car I have owned

1.4ltr Fire MultiAir Intercooled Turbo Rallye 6speed DCT auto

Continued engine problems-8th trip to dealership

Battery replacement

My Rally review

First New Car

Great car for the money!

Don't buy it!

Be ready for breakdowns

Best car i've ever owned 

Great car with few cons

Looks can be deceiving..

Dodge's Dart Hits It's Target

What a car!

Dodge hits the mark!

Fun to drive the dart

So far it's worth the money...

Dart SXT Manual

Don't Buy

CAUTION When Buying

The best car around!

Great little car

500 miles in

2016 Dart GT

Dart GT

2016 Dart Limited

V12 SUV

T&C review

Waiting for things to go wrong!

Love The Van BUT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

'96 Town and Country LXI

not a good reliable vehicle

Never Again

Loving it

watch out

No More Chrysler Products

My 96 Town and Country LXi

Great Value

Should have had a toyota motor

Nice while it lasted

Not too bad, but not the best

Great minivan

Junk

vaniful

Not a bad car

1995 Chrys T&C

We called it "Mrs. Van-Go'

My deceased 96 Town and Country

Don't Knock It Til You Try It

More good than bad...

Dependable Xport

Edmund's has it all wrong

Town and Country LXI

Good choice!

Mixed Review

Transmission Fixed? 

Never again!

Road Runner

Incredibly reliable vehicle

Almost 20 years of Chrysler Minivans

Chrysler LXI 

Still the King of Minivans

Old but drives great

1997 Town and Country LXi

T&C Transmissions

Great T&C

Great Value 
Buyer Beware

Where are the lights

Terrible transmissions

mistery

1997 T&C LXI

Loved Owning It

Chrysler Mini van

Nice Car But Loud Idle Rattle

Lots of Miles and I still love it!

never again

98 Chrysler Town & Country 

First Minivan - love it

180,000 Mile Review

Expensive vehicle horrible reliability

What a nice vehicle!

disappointed

1998 Chrysler Town & Country LXi

first van a success

minivan

Recent problems

True runner

An excellent vehicle

Nice family transportation

Nice to own except for reliability

Overall, A Great Vehicle

Fancy family ride

240,713 miles

Best car I owned

Grand Caravan Sport 

Pleasantly surprised

Don't judge a book by it's cover

MD

Chrysler Town & Country Limited AWD

Luxury I can afford

2003 Chrysler LX

Wouldn't buy this car again

186,000 + miles and no major problems

Great van but not over 90,000 miles

Worst vehicle I have ever owned

wish me luck!

great  van 

town and country

Smooth, Solid Ride

Not that bad

Steering/Front end problems.

Courier Vehicle 100000 miles in one year!

Break repair list with every oil change

2005 Chrysler Town and Country Limited

Great Van

Wish it got better gas mileage

I love my Town and County

Worst vehicle I ever purchased

Best for the money

Love my Town & Country

King has fallen

I Guess I'm Addicted To These

Good but good be much better

disappearing oil & 2 many catalyic converters 

American made crap

fantastic van

2007 Town & Country Limited

It's been a great car

No Chrysler ever again in my life!

Disappointed working mother of two

Should've kept looking

RUN AWAY!!!!!!

Chrysler 2008 town and country a lemon

Van history.

Jury is still out

Jury is still out

Town and Country Worth the Price

Great Van

1st Time with T&C

2009 Town & Country Touring

Family Mover with Style

I will never ever recomend this minivan to any one

I don't recommend this mini van

Awful reliability

Best minivan... period!

Great family car!

Loves to eat brakes 

Great service great car

Town & Country Limmited

Just What We Wanted

Best vehicle on the market!

Quietly sits in the sidelines

cheap front wheel roters

Steer Way Clear of This Lemon

Good Minivan

Great Van

Run away from the Navigation System

Best Chrysler mini van Chrysler ever built.

I love this Minivan.

2013 a Must See!

Town and Country Tourling L

World's most versatile vehicle

Just purchased, a few thoughts

Transmission defect

Engine repairs at 40k

The best mini-van out there right now - and the best value to boot

first mini van I ever purchased

Far ahead of the others

Be forewarned: You'll be @ dealer every month

Time for a mini van

My new favorite vehicle.

Great Van

Love it!!

Why is this van not a bigger deal?

Classy Minivan

Love it!

Safe comfortable car for the family!

Bad tranny

Great Ride.... T&C Touring L

First Class

New family van 

Sweetness

If you think about buying think again

2011 Town and Country reliability

Stay away from this vehicle

Not So Happy!!!

Steer clear of this van!

Worst Vehicle I've Ever Owned!

It's OK

Never again!

Be Prepared

Burnt once, 2x don't know yet

Love it, love it, LOVE IT!

nicest chrysler minivan in years

It Died 

First 150 Miles

Wife loves it

LOVE OUR MINIVAN!

Best T & C to date

2011 T&C

First MiniVan

Transmission Problems

Transmission

Don't buy the Town and Country

Very nice family mover!

wouldn't buy another Chrysler again

Safety

09 Town and Country...Don't do it!

love the limited

I really like this minivan

Good Job Chrysler!!!!!!!!

2010 Chrysler Stealer Dealer

3 Major Defects...

worst vehicle i have ever owned

Luxury at a great price

My First Chrysler

Way better than old Honda

2010 chrysler town and country 3.3 V6

Dont Buy It!

LEMON!!!

Should I trade now?

After 100,000...Beware!

disappointed 

noisey

So Far, So Good

Excellent Value

The vehicle you buy for all the wrong reasons

U win with this ride!

Good Family Van With Some Negatives

30th Anniversary Edition

Smart buy

Rear air shocks defective off dealers lot

Mediocre at best, very uncomfrotable

MAP UPDATES @ $149 each year - DARK rear WINDOWS

Disappointed in navigation system

Not so great

Best Buy

I wanted a truck, she wanted an SUV.

Excellent Car

love the vehicle hate the mileage

09 T&C 25th Anniversary Edition

Most bang for our buck!!

For 30 years the leader in minivans

Bad customer service no warrantee for rotors

67,000 miles of carefree comfortable travel

Great family hauler, never running out of space

This one is best yet

Love my Town & Country Minivan

Best MiniVan out there 

Do not hesitate to buy one of these!

Going to town.

What a Lemon!

Best interior style of all mini vans

Transmission

hunk of junk

Run away from this minivans

Be Careful With Used Purchase

Regretting buying this vehicle

Rear axle Brace keeps snapping at speed,

BUYER BEWARE!! DON'T BUY!!!

Lets be realistic 

Moderate Van

EVERYTHING THAT CAN GO WRONG WILL GO WRONG WITH THIS VAN

Goodbye toyota

Good Value and Dependability

Almost 200,000 and still strong.

Death Trap

Do not buy

Going Broke in Car Repairs

Horrible Van

Keep on cruizin!!

Good Car but Chrysler should be ashamed of a few things

Family owned van

Always wanted one

Updated REVIEW

Love my van, but too many issues below 40K

outstanding value

Pretty But Loses It's Luster

Good Van

Junk!!! Don"t buy

Worst Car I've Ever Owned

Best Minivan EVER

My Second T&C Limited

Great Vehicle!

Owned from new

Angry- Broke and without a ride!

Excellent quality

Breaks with every oil change

A reliable Chrysler--go figure

2005 town & country Bad power steering pump

Decent van, Nice features, OK reliability

good ol nellie

North of 300,000 miles and still going strong!

Fleet vehicle

Replaced the SUV

Not as good as the '08-'12

What'd they do to the seats

Happy with my choice

Can't get the airbag light off

06 Mini Van

improved mileage a tad bit

Aiming for 400,000 miles

The practical people mover for the long term

Perfect for a family of 6

My First Chrysler

Bought used

2003 Limited AWD

Made it to the moon!

Served me Well for Eleven Years

Best ride I ever bought

What a Lemon

2000 Town & Country Limited

Best work van i owned.

Chrysler Town and Country Limited

AWD Chrys Town & Country Rocks!

Chrysler Town and Country LXi

good van for 10 yrs now

There's good and bad in everything

2000 Chrysler T & C is a great van

From a typical mom in WA state

Lemon!!!!!!

Love this Car!

Great Vehicle to Drive..!!

220K miles of good times

2006 Chrysler Town & Country Limited

Beware of power steering problems !

Can't be beat

Transmission problems

Not thrilled

run away

Town/Country Lxi AWD

once per year major repair

Can't use driver side window

New user

The best van ever, hands down

Best Van Ever

Love It!!!!

Cream Puff

good van

Beast!

Mercedes quality in a Van!

Good mini-van

Very Satisfied Buyer

Fantastic Value, Great Comfort

WORSE VAN EVER 

Luxury and atmosphere

As the miles go by...

Fun and DEPENDABLE

FRONT SEAT

Value

great car

Excellent w/ Extended Warranty Coverage

what a joke

My 4th Chrysler and the best yet

Great mini-van !!

Excellent overall...

Never  again!

5-4-03

1999 Town & Country Limited

So Far So Good

Shakes, Rattles but looks Good

Enjoyable but troublesome

Biggest Hunk of Junk I have ever owned..

Very happy with my choice

Never thought I'd say this, but

Transmission Design Flawed!!  Do not Buy

3 Chrysler Mini-vans since 1989

Never ceases to amaze me

Comfortable, but terrible ongoing issues

Wonder Wagon

Pain in the...

Enjoyed this model for 8 years!

What could happen next!

Great For Family

Excellant Car

Chrylser not ok

top of the line

I'm switching to foreign cars.  

T&C     (wife's car)

2003

Better Than I thought

Lots of Repairs !

love it to bits

Very important to read!!!

Never ever buy another chrysler product

T and C

Great car

Stylish  not  Safe

What Am I Worth?

so far so good

My experience better than most reviews

Got Lucky!

Jury is still out

mechanical problems

Great Family Car

Love it

Honest Review

T&C Limited

Excellent for the money

Very good vehicle

Love this van

It's been 5 long years

Overwhelmed with disappointment

This van is not your answer!

Fine minivan

Town and Country nothing but trouble!

239,785 and still going strong

A well enginnered car

Wife loves it, mechanicals are good

Great Van

204K Miles and still going!

Great buy

Hate the sliding side doors

Could be worse.

led running lights

Not ready to make purchase

ride on

Chrysler

A Car For All Seasons

Love this car!!

Audi R8 First 3 Months Review

Great Luxury Family SUV

Dream Machine

Great car

The best SUV- $60K can buy

Q7 - THE 
So Much Money, So Little Value 

No more Audi for me

LOVE This SUV!

Great SUV

Replaced Brakes & Tires @ 18K

Disasterous Q7 experience

One week into my 3.6 Premium ownership

lasting quality through the years

Q-Tastic!

Nice ride with a price

Great car with unfortunate design flaws

What a grand surprise

A big lemon I want to love.

Worth the wait

Yes it's good looking but not reliable  

1 Fun SUV

Side mirror/ hatch back dr/ Cruise contr

Q5 is best choice I could have made

Transmission default

Audi Q5 - Great SUV!

Awesome, almost perfect, Audi

Best In Its Class

Great Ride & Performance- GPS lacking

Audi owner

So thrilled

German engineered nonsense

Complete Package

Great car! Just take care of it!

Avoid this over engineered junk

Buyer beware of water pump issues

So close to perfect . . .

Love my R8

R8 4.2 

What a bargain

An SUV that is actually fun to drive!!

A fantastic vehicle 

Loving it

Great machine, but not options

Q7 4.2 S-Line

Disappointed

Easily the best SUV I've ever owned

Disappointed

Dream SUV

Disappointed

Doesn't Get Any Better 

So Far So Good

115,000 miles and still ticking.

Best vehicle I've owned!

Noisy engine

Tonka toy with a great ride

Rolling Thunder, A6 on Steroids

Better than the 07s

Car Seat in the Center Rear

Buyer Beware

The Best

Many problems

Love this Car

I NEVER write reviews

It just keeps getting better every time I drive it...

SUV & Sports Car in 1

2014 SQ5

German Gem

94 UrS4 classic AWD performance/safety

D's S4

One of Audis best

Perfect

MY R8

Long Term Believer

A Jewel of a Car

What a great car!

The Best Of The Best

Just a terrific car!

The Incredible R8

From a twin turbo convertible

Excellent buy

Overall Great Car

Best performance car for the $$$

A True quality built car. Blast to drive

Awesome Car!!!!

Oldie but a goodie

No regrets

Audi R8 ... awesome

Audi R8

Audi, unexpected elegence.

As good as expected or better

Well integrated, what a motor!

The Perfect Automobile

I have named her Gemini.

Classy/sporty/unique grand tourer

All show and plenty of  go!

S5

600 miles into my S5

750 miles, many more to go

Easiest $60K choice I've ever made!

Fantastic Daily driver

Couldn't Ask for More!

Chicago S5

A stupid car - but in a fun way

Audi has nailed the perfect car!

1993 Audi S4

1993 Audi S4, Not made this well anymore

great car for a mechanic

Exceptional Drive

great car!

CLA 45 AMG VS S3

Fantastic out of the box for every day, but...

Sedan perfection!

How Ended Up with the Audi S3

Pocket Rocket

Best of all worlds

Awesome car... with one minor flaw

Audi's "Baby S" is a sweet little gem!

What a shame

In pieces on the shop floor at 400 miles

I loved my 2012 Q5 so much I bought a 2016!

My third q5

New 2016 Q5 speed and comfort..

heavy passenger door

First rate ride

Audi dealership quality

Nice to Drive

2.0T oil consumption

2.0T Q5

Serviced more than in my driveway!

Audi - junk...No service Do not buy!

Nice Car, Loads of Rattles

Bad decision

Great Suv

My Best SUV ever

Audi versus Acura

Pleasure on my trips

a beautiful lemon

Squeaking brakes & Bad Audi Srvice

I LOVE MY AUDI

Q5 Large mirrors causes driver blind spots-

Very nice crossover

2015 Q5 Premium Plus 2.0T

The perfect little SUV!!

Great used SUC

Uneven Quality

It's a beaut!

A Lot of Time In The Shop

OK Car - Won't Buy Again

Cheap interior parts, avoid vaccum

Brakes Screech known issue with no resolution

Audi Q5 - 6 month review

NOT COOL IN THE DESERT!!

I wish I had stuck with the Acura

Fantastic Automobile

Power and efficiency

No spare and no run flats.  

This is my 1st and will be my last Audi

$55,000.00 Vibrator

Love this car!

A driver's SUV

Fun to drive, electronics are a hassle

One Year Review

Great Ride, but a few issues!

brake issues at low mileage

front interior

Audi Q7 Prestige

Ok car, but Ok at $50k doesn't make the cut

great car

Beautiful Full Featured Car - but some caution.

Love my diesel

2015 Audi Q7 - A pure driving pleasure

Q7 2015 the worst

'15 S line Prestige does not come with USB ports

Not totally German made!!!

2015 TDI Q7 _ review

wife loves it..so that settles it

Really impressed....Love my Q7

New to 35K review

Amazing

Audi Q7 PRESTIGE S-LINE

Best SUV you can buy 

Q7: Power and Luxury is possisble!

Very pleased with my Q7 TDI

Q7 Love!

best Euro SUV on market

Audacious Audi

Multiple Repairs over the First Year.

So far, so good for the most part

Ride is great, MMI is TERRIBLE!!!

Audi Q5 2015 TDI

Great Little SUV

One happy driver

Very sorry I bought this car.

2012 AUDI Q5 - IT'S A LEMON!

Good but room for improvement...

My First Audi

2011 Q7 3.0T Premium Plus 

Truly A Luxury SUV

Love mine so far

Love my diesel

4 wonderful cylinders

Expectation Fulfilled

Car of my dreams turns out to be a dud!

Very Sporty, great quality but

Q5 is Like an Apple Product

It Makes Me Smile

Q5 2.0 Premium After 12,000 miles

2012 Q5 @ 20k Miles - Great SUV

Nice Car - Horrible service

2012 Q5 Prem Plus + Nav 2.0T

New Q5 Owner

Awesome SUV

Great 

Gorgeous

2012 Q5 2.0T Premium

Excellent Family Car

First Audi and LOVING it...

Great SUV

@ 3,000 miles

We will never let it go

The Everything SUV

New 2010 TDI Q7

Love my Q7 TDI!

From AMG to Q7

AUDI Q7

SUV of the Future

TDI is a winner

Excellent Crossover

very nice CUV

Favorite Audi yet

Absolutely Trust Audi Q7 TDI for Long Road Trips

Roomy, sporty and not a minivan

The best of all worlds

Love the TDI, Skip the MMI package

Help is on the way

Known Navigation problem that Audi will not tell you

2014 Premium Plus TDI

Best car I've ever owned

Q5 Quality Has Gone Down Significantly

Brakes at 31,000 Miles

Driving the 2014 Audi Q5

So much to love but so many annoyances!

Had a car for over three years love/hate

Superb Quality-Design-Performance

lemon

Love my Tdi

q7 Diesel

TDI engine is a superstar

Audi Q5 TDI - Better mileage than advertised

Agile and sporty but not a sedan

Subaru Forester to Audi Q5

Art of Wheels

Audi-be better

Buyer Beware

This car has it all over the RX

Have enjoyed driving this car

Audi q5 in a rain storm

Love my Q5

So Far, So great

2 months in

Hated Crossovers until this!

Good car but not perfect

Design flaw

My 6 year old 2010 Audi Q5 3.2 Totally Undriveable

$ Bang for your Buck $

Love my Audi!

Better than BMW

2013 Audi Q5 2.0 - Good so far

2013 Q5 2.0T Quattro

Q5 3.0

New to me - I love it!

Great Vehicle in all ways but one

3.0T Premium Plus S-Line

Nice Car

2013 Audi Q5 3.0T Premium Plus S-line

2013 audi q5 3.0t premium plus s-line

3.5 years, 58k miles and counting.

Disappointed Beyond Belief

2011 Audi Q5

Disappointed 

First Audi, not my last if it holds up.

Fabulous vehicle

Wow!

Good looking car, poor build quality and horrible service

Soooo much better than the X3

Ticked Off

Q5 exceeds expectations

New Q

I've got a 3.0TDI diesel!

Awesome Audi!

Best Crossover SUV 

Out performs MPG estimates

Great Overall Small CUV/SUV

Audi is not the "Truth in Engineering"

Look Out BMW and Mercedes

Wonderful vehicle

Worthy successor to my Q5 TDI

Beautiful vehicle but....ABS clicks at 25mph

2018 Q5 Premium Plus - Owner review - Minor nuisan

3rd Q5 in the family!

LOVE IT!

Love my Audis

Exactly what I was looking for!

Audi Q5 2.0

Audi heaven

Brakepad Eater? Tire Eater?

Love This Vehicle

Looks good, good mileage, but major engine problem

Read This First

Luxury interior

I'm in love...

Awesome Vehicle

Bye Bye BMW

Can Rule the Road

Great Ride comes  w Great Luxury and Performance!

Great Car but poor city mileage

Idaho Audi

Love it and cannot leave it!

Great car as long as there is not a problem.

Liked my 2014 Q5 so much - I leased another!

A 1 Thats our Q5

I left my Lexus for an Audi Q5

Early impression of a 2016 Q5 TDI

Audi Q-5 SUV

Very Nice Car

2016 Q5 Premium Plus from Naples

Not so Great SUV!

Wow! Best Car I've Ever Owned

An honest feedback.

Q7 redesign is missing simple options

Spend on what's important

hesitation

My '00 S4

Awesome Ride!!

best car yet

Beats my BMW

Never Again!

AMAZING!!!!!

The Perfect Car?

Still a great car

Fun to drive, nightmare to own

Love/Hate

This car is so well-rounded

Great car

Very responsive in both handling and accelerating

Great when purchased, great now.

Great Car

A good alternative to an SUV

Too Much Fun!

Twin Turbo Fast fun and practical

audiS4 kicksbtt

living with an S4 AVANT

Oh my word! FAST!

best all-round car

fast four door

Great Car

What a fun car!

Fun, but should be better

Great Everyday Fun

best suv killer ever

Great car, love that Turbo whine

Great car for a good price

Puts a smile on your face every time you drive it

Maxumum S4

What's not to like?

Won't be buying another one.

Love at first drive!

I hate loving it so much :(

The best overall car I have ever owned

The All Around Driving Machine

Police makes driving less enjoyable

S4

Luxury Sport Sedan

S7 Heaven

S7 Engine Malfunction Fault

40,000 mile review

One month review

Finally the S Tronic

We ove our R* spyder!

Stealth Performer

New S7

Daily Commuter with Benefits

The S7 is a Sexy High Performance Machine

My Rocket Ship

Audi at it's Finest

Amazing ride

2017-06-12 Update after 12,127 miles

It's relatively new but we love everything, almost

problems

Probably the best 3 row SUV

Love it

Car is just alright.

An honest feedback.

A big headache!

Exciting only in Dynamic mode

Best Car I Have Ever Owned

Best Vehicle I Have Owned

Best Q7 - Audi took their time and did it right!

Can be improved... but still great overall

Would Do It Again

The car I've been waiting for...

There is no other choice!

A must test drive 

The most camoflaged car on the road!

Pretty good car. This car is FAST

S4 V8 Tiptronic

My Electric  Blue Beach Buggy

great car I recommend it!

excellent car

BEWARE!! Caught on fire in my driveway! 

Actually a 2006 Cabriolet

Great convertible

Kicks!

Simply the finest car on the road

Most practical in its class

Fun car to drive!

Incredible machine S4

An Enthusiasts Daily Driver 

A lot of fun

I am sooo glad....

Highly Recommended Vehicle

Rock stable Dual personality

Great car

Almost perfect

Great Vehicle

Easy to live with

2015 s4  Stronic  what a kick!

coming up on a year and still love it

First week of my new love

Definite Head-turner

Great Engineering and performance

This car is a rocket!!!

A great sport sedan.

One of my best purchases

Everything you want in a 6M sport sedan

Read before you buy

A German muscle car, sleeper division

Dr. Jeckill & Mr. Hyde

2014 S4 *Great Car* 

GREAT BMW ALTERNATIVE, FAIR PRICING

Excellent Driver's Car

Early impressions on 2014 S4 6MT highest trim

Brake failure

My second AUDI

RS7 amazing sports utility sedan

S4! 

Made me a believer!!

Fantastic Sedan

Something Special

The fm radio of my S4 broke down in 3 month

Love it!

Love that Sport Setting  on tranny

New Hotness

Best Sport Sedan Hands down.

Wonderful Machine

Steering issues

Vrooom Vrooom

My S4 Experience

S4 brings back the fun of driving

Best All-around

Excellent vehicle!

Still wake up at 4 am to drive

Almost perfect

Performance, Luxury and Practicality!

2008 Audi S4 - Chesterfield,VA

2008 Audi S4

4Door AWD Rocket!

Still a compromise

Beautiful S4

Awesome Audi S4

2011 Audi S4 Premium Plus with S Tiptronic

My New Addiction

S-4

Best purchase ever!

New 2011 prestige S4 with sport differential

Near Perfectoin

Audi S4 Rocks

Great car, except for the lemon thermostat.

4 door sports car

This car is so fun to drive!!!

Best car I've ever owned

great car, not as good as the old one

Never Loved a Car Until the S4

Luxury Speedster

Who needs a BMW?

Awesome Last Minute Switch from 530XI

Simply superb

understated coolness

Best Car I've Ever Owned

Fast, Rough and Thirsty

Impressive - Sure footed

Audi S4 25th Quattro

The best I've owned

2006 Audi S4 quattro 4dr Sedan

05.5 S4 4dr aka"D BEAST!"

Don't buy, unless you have money to burn

Can we go topless?

Fantastic!

By far the best car I have owned

The Ultimate Compromise

The best car for a smart man

If I could marry this car, I would!

Excellent car for the money

Is there a perfect car?This is may be it

Updated review of my 2005 S4

Time to debunk the Audi S4!

Love my car

From '97 A8 to '05 S4

Very cool

2007 Audi S4 Avant

Sharp car that is fun to drive 

Audi S4

Rock Solid Machine

Fun car

First months of ownership

German V8

what more can i ask for

The most compliments I've ever had

06 Audi S4 Sedan Manual

Road Machined

Audi Rocks

Bang for the buck

2007 S4 manual transmission

I love this car

A wolf in sheep's clothing

Never thought I'd love it!

The intelligent mans supercar!

Uber wagon, year round satisfaction

Joy Ride

04 S4 -Tremendous

A versatile car in every way except...

Awesome S4

I wake up everyday excited to drive it.

This Cab is perfect!!

you just wouldnt understand

best car car for the money

S4 Review

Awesome Fun Car

Love my S4

Buy with warranty or be ready to spend

This One Does it All

Fairly Impressed

Wish I had my 01 S4 back

AWD Rocket

The S4 Rocks!

Great Car

can they improve it?

Simply a Blast!

Low quality performer

Most underrated car

The perfect car

fully pleased with my S4

"Silken Rocket" as dubbed by AUDI

What a rush

One great Audi!

Best all around car

An over-rated Audi

Great Performance

A sleeper car to the uninitiated

Incredible at 14 years old!

It just keeps going

S-6 Overview

1995 Audi S6 - The Greatest Car I've Ever Driven

S6 Avant

Control and fun

S6 the amazing machine

Fantastic Sports Sedan 20 Valve Audi S6

166,000 and still kicking butt!

Amazing

Best in Class

20v Turbo Sedan

S6 Wagon

Best car ever I've driven - Audi S6

Luxury Q-ship

Reliable performance with comfort

Performance w High Maintenance Cost

A Real SUV

Stealth Wagon

It can only get better with an RS6

Family image

Finest All-around Vehicle On the Planet

exciting solidness

Just Awesome

Start of a Beautiful Relationship

Under the radar high performance Audi S6

Disappointed

Far beyond emagination

Nothing but Audi

The best handling wagon

S6Avant

S6 Avant  eye opener

Get it while you can!

Awesome machine

2013 Audi S6 is a bargain

S6 is the bomb!

S6 Rules

Best Top Secret in the Market

Most impressive vehicle I have driven

Love my S6

My S6 review

FANTASTICO!!

Dissapointed

Who writes these reviews?

There is no comparison

Spectacular car, not cheap though.

Amazing

Excellent Car

Wow and simply amazing

It's a rocket limo

Great Car

Classy-Performance Sleeper

Awesome Audi

The Best

You gotta pay to play!

2002 Audi S6 Avant

Undercover rocket.

Excellent Car!!!

Hottest Wagon on Earth

Awesome Car

S6

Overrated and overpriced

2002 - Audi S6 Avant

Audi S6  will spoil you for ever. Sorry!

Great family car with spunk.

Extraordinary

The wagon that thinks it's a sports car

Persistent Vibration

Ultimate Daily Driver

Elegant Mule

The do it all super car

This car is wonderful.

Audi doesn't get it yet

THE ONLY REVIEW YOU NEED TO READ!

From a Jack to a Queen

Small package large performance

THE best car I've ever driven

S3 is worth price

Best Audi besides the R8

Great drivers car!

Loving every minute

Audi S3

Couldn't be happier with it

The little S3 that could

2016 Audi S3 is terrific!

Switched from BMW E90 - Zero Regrets

2016 Audi S3 - Low Coolant Warnings

T&C L

2015 Town and Country Auto Review

The van we've been wanting

Glad it's not a GMC

Fun and sporty mini van!

OK, but not what I hoped for.

It doesn't get much better!

Watch out when you buy a CPO Audi

A Perfect AWD Convertible

Amazing Car

Wow

A lot to offer but with a couple of compromises

I love my s5

BWM-and back to Audi

Awesome car

1st time Audi owner

It is SOOOOO good

BMW to Audi

fast and refined

Audi S 5

Great Car With a Big Problem

Love my Audi S5

Love this Car....

Beauty

2016 audi s5

Little Audi Red Convertible

Just bought the S5

Dream Car

New 2010 S5 convertible

A great ride

A Gentleman's Muscle Car

Audi S5 turns heads and excites the senses

The latest version of the classic S5

Happier as I own it. This car grows on me

S5 first 2k miles

Amazing!

My Thoughts

That darn sunroof

Great but can be improved.

More Luxurious than My Vette

Awesome

Very Sexy Car

Heads won't stop turning to look at S5!

7 years hundred and twenty thousand miles and neve

perfect...

Handling is beautiful

Best of the Lot

You won't be disappointed

Awesome

Best Daily Driver

My S5

Black Pearl & Red Magna

My new 4 door sports car

Traded in a 2015 Carrera 4 GTS for 2016 S6

2016 Audi s6

S6 purchased 1/14/16

Absolutely Fantastic

2017 S6 - super fun to drive!

All I can say is WOOOOOW!

Grown up car

Company car, putting lots of miles on it.

The car clearly gets little love from the company

If you are considering buying, Not worth the buy

RUN

2015 Used with almost 40K but Certified!!!

Not a bad car

S8 Evaluation Review

fast luxary

5 passenger 911

fast  awd

GREAT SPORTS SEDAN

Audi D2 S8

Amazing

Makes you smile

What a Cayenne Turbo driver thinks of this car

Hold On

Audi 2017 SQ5 Quattro Blows Past Porsche Macan

What a dissapointment

SQ5 Great Drive But

S4 in a bigger body

Superb car, great controls, powerful 

Loving My First Audi

What a sleeper of a CUV! This vehicle scoots!

Super sporty for a truck

Debadged sleeper

2106 Audi SQ5

SQ5 Dream machine

S8 Smokin'

Stealth and style

Luxary with sport

Audi AWESOME

Why All Audis Rule

Great car, Infuriating Controls

Just as good as the others

The Perfect Car

Great Decision

Big disapointment

Top of all cars

Absolute Beast

WOW

Great!!

Refined experience for refined tastes

This car was built for me.  Incredible!!

2007 Audi S8

Blown Away by the S8

The A8L

Audi 2002 S8

2003 Audi S8

A used 2003 Review

A good value

Fantastic vehicle

Outstanding Vehicle!

Impeccable

The perfect all-weather supersedan

AMASING

audi s-8

Audi S8

bmw mercedes killer

Audi dissapoints

The best Audi I've ever owned!

Super Car

What a RocketShip

Audi SA a good alternative to a BMW 7XX

okay car

New Car

After 12 years, still the best German sedan

Fantastic Driving Experience

Amazing Automobile

Supercar

Q Ship

The Best High End Car EVER!

Cool points out the window

My Own Private Lear Jet

Sports Sedan of the Decade

A fantasic car

As exciting as mini-van ownership gets

Hey, It's a minivan, not a sports car

Great on gas!

Not for the Mountains (CORRECTED)  Good Van

Best decision was "going mini van"!

Maybe the only 3.7 model left in USA?

Sometimes wish I had it.

A5 me baby

First 3 months with my 2009 A5

The most fun I've had driving a car!

Cost $54k, people think it cost $75k

Mind blasting!

Scrumptious A5

A5-  Neck Breaker !!!!

I like going to work, now

Stunning & Solid

Vegas5

Another Great Audi

Happy A5 owner

Horrible Sun Roof

2009 Audi A5 "like new"

Trust me--Go manual

Audi a5 3.2L Burns a lot of OIL

3 year update

A5-S LIne: Fun to Drive but Uncomfortable

2009 A5 S-line

The Ladies Love It

Impressed

greatest car

Do your homework and drive other cars.

Cutest Small SUV on the Road!

Don't buy a Trax

"IT'S A WINNER"

Our new little one.

Short people beware

Great for empty nesters

I'm in love!

Love my hoe

Lemmmmon

GREAT TAHOE

Farewell GM

Great Go-Anywhere Truck

It's a Man's Truck! 

awesome

Good as new!

The best SUV I have ever owned/driven

my 2 door baby tahoe

Great for just about anything

As good a vehicle as my 450sl

Favorite Vehicle

Workhorse

great truck

I cannot Espresso enough how great my Trax is!

Good but not great

Love it! Still do!

Cherry Sparkles...cause she is red

BADLY MADE!

2015 Chevrolet Trax Silver FWD LS

2015 Chevy Trax

passenger side glove box

Zippy and fun to drive

Chevy Trax LS (AWD)

1990 Suburban 1500

Worth 20 Grand

Great Truck

Tahoe Breakhoe

another Junk Chevy

Still In Question

Wolf

outstanding vehicle

Still running strong at 265,000 miles

I love my like new '92

Great truck!

Still have since high school

Great Suburban

Great Truck

188,000 and doing well

Reliability

Go Chevy

Not bad GM

True American Design

One of the last of the GOOD Trucks!

We love our tank

My Big Baby Boy

One of the best Chev engine made

In Praise of Old Friends

So in love!

Great Vehicle 

My Taco(Tahoe)

Great Truck

Bertha

1990 Chevrolet Suburban Performance

Big Bertha

my third suburban

Snow White

Safe Truck To Drive

Dependable Betsy

Safe Truck To Drive

First suburban won't be the last

Strong suburban

Realistic Review of 1996 Tahoe

Top Notch

All about my 1996 chev. Tahoe

BLUE

Love this truck

My truck

ex-EPA eBay find

happy

90 suburban review

Wanted one 26 years ago!!

its a chevy

1995 Tahoe

Charlie's Tahoe

Well made in the USA

Good Sport Ute

cheverolet

Love my Chevy

95 Tahoe best deal around

Good Stuff!

Good Stuff!

Bought for a spare, can't stop driving and love fixing it up

Bulletproof

Built to Last

Great Truck......but

1995 Sport Tahoe

MY 97 TAHOE LT

A real SUV

GREAT SUV

Love it...but oh my!

Awesome Truck

I dread the day it dies

Absolute BEST vehicle I've ever owned!!! 

Excellent SUV

Glad to own this truck

Run Away!

Amazingly fun and practical!

2013 A7 with Prestige and Innovation Pkg

Look somewhere else

First week with the 2013 audi a7 premium plus 

Great package

Wow - What a Surprise!

New A5 Owner

First Audi..great coupe, quality & quick

It's an amazing ride

Audi Gets It Right

Super Car for those in the know

One of the first owners of an A5

If Steve Jobs makes cars, it would be A5

A driver's car

My 3rd Audi - and the best yet

Outstanding

Best Luxury Coup - Audi A5

Unreal

Almost perfect

Best I've Ever Owned

Sexy

Inspiring!

A5-Star Rating!

My first impressions

I'm in heaven

Ugly but overall a great car

Great Car - Big Time Maintenence

A8 Rules!!!

Biggie sized A4

WHAT A CAR!

97 Audi A8 awsome car

Will buy another one

A Great Sedan

Better than the dealers can deal with

Stay away from Audi A8s

LOVE THIS CAR!!!! 

Audi A8

An automotive jewell!

Love the Car...hate the maintenance cost

Excellent Car

 New A7 on the block 

Best Audi so far. 

It's awesome

A7, great new car 

Wishing more electrified miles

Poor Hybrid Implementation

class action lawsuit coming

What is the TRUE Mileage of the Audi eTron

Want when the 2017 is out and VW Settlement done

Fantastic technology

Perfect Fit

Perfect? No. Good Balance? Yep.

Best of both worlds!

Reliability Unproven

A3 Etron is all Audi

The Best Choice

A3 e-Tron Prestige Review - Nice Car!

Dream car - very satisfied so far

Wagons are back!

Amazing Allroad

BEST ALLAROUND

Perfect auto for my wife..

Best SUV for My Wife

Love car

Still perfect for me.

The Q3 had me at hello.

The worst fuel consumption by far for similar cars

Not Happy with this SUV

2015 Q3 Quattro - Engine light keeps going on

Luckily it has a good warranty

Wonderful car but no Homelink

The Cure for the Common SUV

Great value for the Price

Love my q3

Just got it and it's great so far

My Suburban

want some, get some

Best Large SUV Made!

Suburban

Love my 'burban

King of the road

Favorite Hand-Me-Down

Best vehicle I ever had

more gm garbage

i like it

used car

K1500

outstanding suv

GREAT TRUCK

Representive of all? Or an expection?

My Burb

A Little Work For An Older Gem

GM stinks

Suburban is dead at 137k

With Chevy you never know what you're gonna get

It's been good

Solid Like A ROCK

Still love it after 7+ years

Love it

Mother of four's Suburban Ride

Good 'ol Faithful

Very roomy-lots of rattles & problems

Awesome Truck 

great truck

Just can't let it go

They Think I'm The CIA, FBI...

my 97 tahoe

Good Value

passes everthing but a gas station

Fun for a big family

Very Disappointed

Great Suburban

Needs a full time mechanic onboard.

I love my Suburban!

Good family vehicle

A true lemon

Surburban to 300k

Sub-par-bun

Wonderful car

Good Value

2000 Lt Suburban 4x4

Great SUV!

Chevy Suburban owner

Fuel pump problems

Not again

An absolute Juggernaut

Pretty Good Vehicle

228,000 miles and doing great!

Great truck

Best truck I've ever owned!!

We Love Our New GM

I'm sold on the Suburban!

What a way to build a vehicle !

My first Suburban and it's a winner

2002 Suburban Z-71

Love my Z71

Bigger is Better

BEST SUV EVER!

Suburban LTZ

1500 LS 5.3 V8

Great Choice

Lemon!

Great (big) SUV

'06 Suburban 4x4 LT

Best Choice

Plastics

Chev Sub

stinco

Suburban review

?

Family Fun

Great SUV

LIke it

First time suburban owner

I love my Suburban

EXCELLENT BUY!!  I LOVE IT!

Great Veicle

A blast to drive

best of the big ones

Highly recommended, plus decent MPGs

Belated 6 Year Suburban Review

For a big family, there's no other ride!

Almost Perfect

New Convert

Suburban - There's no substitute

A Winner

GM better do something!

Love Hate Relationship

Love it!

This is the real thing

Love my LTZ

2007 burban AMAZING REVIEW FOR HIGH MILEAGE 

Another superior Chevy truck!

New Purchase, Happy

Bad Choice

Great Car

The best truck in the world

Replaced 2005 Durango

Roomy, fresh, with many nice features

All day, every day Chevy

Great Vehicle

excessive oil consumption

Love it!

Very Pleased so far

Trading up

Owner Review 2009 Suburban

'07 Design Disappointments

Love the car but hate the problems

Suburbans and mileage / ethenol gas

I really like it despite repairs.

Why did I wait so long to buy it?

This Gen of Suburbans is only good to haul people, the utility/camping aspect is gone.

SofarSogood

Nice Truck

Almost Perfect Tow Vehicle

BEST SUV I HAVE EVER OWNED OVERALL

Avoid Suburbans with 5.3 engine

Clanking Noise Everytime it drives

Shuddering Suburban

Buyer Beware

Chevy is letting me down...

Outstanding Big Time SUV

4th one and still love it!

suburban interior conveniences

Another great Chevy truck

Transmission issue

220k later and keeps on ticking!

3rd  Suburban

We enjoy our Suburban

Surburban = Lemon

I will never buy a Chevy again!

Computer is junk, hub assemblies fail

Capacity, Power, Luxury  and style

Great Large SUV.  Comfort, Smooth, ROOM ROOM ROOM!

Multiple Problems

Expensive Lemon!

Do Not Buy With Active Fuel Management

Sinking More Money Into my 2008 Suburban

Do Not Purchase a 2008 Chevrolet Suburban

Will own nothing else

Questionable quality

Sweet

Bad Economy Great Deal

Best bang for your buck

Love it! Will drive the wheels off!

20 ,pg my foot

Love it

Great Car, Will never own anything else!

Best Big Family Rig.... HANDS DOWN!!!

Great vehicle but bad year for transmission

2002 Z71 Suburban

love my chevy truck!

Great vehicle for the family

the suburban stinks

Great Family SUV

Like a rock...

World Class

Love the Burb

Happy man

2001 Chevrolet Suburban

01 suburban

Safety, Safety, Safety!

What a fun, functional car!

Burb 2500 LT 4W

Fuel pump failure

DO NOT BUY

240k & STILL Running STRONG!

2002 Suburban

No minivan for us.

This is it!

Only one Suburban, no competition!

Nice SUV

2001 suburban

Suburban

Unbelievable

Big Truck Feel - Luxury Ride and Control

Love this Suburban

189k and still going... what a tank

Oldy but Goodie

The most reliable SUV out there.

King of the Road

Nothing but praise!

2001 Suburban

So far so good

Indestructible

Love the Car hate the MPG

Excellent Large Family Vehicle

Movin on up

2003 Z71

NEW Z71

2003 Suburban

Best automobile I ever had......................

Surprise!  Great gas mileage

Impressed by Chevrolet. It's about time!

Best SUV and a low cost to operate

Great big family on the move vehicle 

Suburban - don't go there

Last Chevy

Try it you wiill like it

The Ultimate Family Vehicle

Great Truck

Our 2000 Chevy Suburban

Burban

Best Car Ever Built.

Best one out of 5

great hockey hauler

poor fuel milage/ok vehical

Love my "Burban"

the do everything truck

Great Car

over 100,000 miles on the original tires

Broken

Favorite Vehicle in 30 years

Review

Owner

Great Vehicle, if you can afford the gas

Chevy Suburban goes the extra mile

Just went over 300,000 miles

2003 Chevy Surburban LT

Suburban again

The Best Generation of Burb Yet...a JOY

excellence

Great SUV

2nd in a row with transmisson problems

The Grocery-Getter From Hell

Feels like it's falling apart

A good 1

Used to be a Chevy/GM fan, will never purchase another!

Farm and Family Friendly

Our 4th Chevrolet Suburban

Chevy Suburban

What a great truck!

Unbeatable

3/4 Ton

Not so great!

The Best in it's Class Fuel Economy

2003 Chevy Suburban LT 2WD F

Good Choice

Not Bad

I love my suburban !

The best in large SUVs

Solid, safe and large SUV

Our baby saved our lives!

Nice Hauler, but troublesome.

3/4 ton HD SUV

My 1998 Suburban

Chevy Suburban

1998 C2500 w/7.4

Suburban

Good so far.

Love-Hate Relationship

1998 DIESEL Suburban

BIG disappointment

Chevy Quality

Great truck-built with low quality components

Best SUV Ever Owned

Keeps going and going and going.....

Best Truck Ever Owned

Best Car I Ever Owned

awesome

Yes.

Nice ride, expensive to maintain

Sweet Ride

A Great American Hoss

NICE 

Not again!

like a real rock

Electrical system nightmare

Mechanical disaster

Good but not Great

not perfect, but still pretty good 

Suburban

Most durable vehicle ever ... Over 300000 miles

"Timex" keeps on ticking

A Great Ride

Very Unreliable

1995 K1500 Chevy Suburban XL

Great SUV!

The Everything Vehicle

95 Suburban

Solid power

Fuel Mileage

Love My Burb

Trade down due to economic slowdown

The Classic SUV that sets the standard

1999 with 307K

GREAT TRUCK

Best We've Ever Had

Sold on Suburbans

Gets the job done but American quality

Babe the blue ox

Great truck to have...countless uses.

The 'barg

Great vehicle

I love this Truck

Love My Burb!!

Worst I've ever owned

OLD FAITHFUL

Superior SUV

surb

is better than expected

Ford Man No More

Gotta love a big SUV 

Eva's review

Sturdy Truck w/some probs

1993 Suburban

Love my K1500 Suburban

BEST SUV AROUND

1994 Suburban

Moved to the Burbs

My old 'burban

Many new parts, still runs strong

Looking, But Nothing Comes Close. Love It

Second Suburban

Almost 10 years, and running strong...

Just getting better with time

From Mini Van Hell to Suburban Heaven

Still a great truck

Our own personal Limo 

I love my 'Burban!

baddest burban in florida!!

BEST SUV I HAVE EVER HAD!!!!!!!

Big Red

It's been good to me.

Owner

Best vehicle built

Excellent SUV

Good truck

Say YES to the Suburban!!

Finally a car big enough for the family

Engineer to Chevy engineers - nice job.

Good Truck

2016 Suburban - Quality and Workmanship Lacking

2016 LTZ used in limo biz has serious problems

Finally, a car my wife loves to drive!

2015 Chevrolet SS

Please keep this Chevy secret & tell no one else!!!

Not for everyone. After two years

Fantastic Bargain

Awesome machine!

Little Dynamo!

One of the best cars I e ever owned 

The more I drive it...

Most fun I've ever had with a car

A whole lot of fun!

I loved my spark.....until

Great little car!

Excellent Vehicle

Sweet car - with of get and go

Front tires don't last

Out of the Blue

Sorry  Chevrolet

Fantastic Truck!

Too little for too much!!!!!!!!!!

Good Truck for the Buck...

Great Truck

Nice truck!!!!

really? I am the first?

Red rocket

Been good to me

best I have Owned

Tahoe - What a great SUV

Great Vehicle

quality machine

One owner Tahoe served us well!

Love it

So far so good

Solid as a rock

Next time I buy a Toyota

1998 Chevrolet Tahoe Review

12 years, 157,000 miles, 1 owner

Tahoe Strong

Best in class

2 Door Tahoes are awesome

99 tahoe

Good Hauler But Had to Go

Great Vehicle!

Tahoe LS

Great Truck

Rock Solid - like the ads

Love this SUV

Lemon?

Tahoe

My Favorite SUV of All Time.

Tahoe is the alpha dog of SUVs  

Chevy on top

Crunch

Lemon in the making!

Not a bad vehicle so far

Love My 1999 Chevy Tahoe

Made In The USA SUV with good towing capability

Prime Example Of American Trucks! 

Slippage! But no clunk

Great SUV

Spark EV 2LT

Excellent commuter car upto 40 miles oneway

Own a great electric car!

Absolutely LOVE my 2015 Suburban LTZ (but....)

2,500 Mile In My 2015 Suburban - A Memo To The Brand Team 

Nice ride, very capable vehicle

severe buffeting/booming, no GM Support

Big problem 

A good commuter car.

Love this car!

Who Needs a Mini Cooper???

Spark EV

Very compitent vehicle all around

Great truck

Exterior design it's very bad

Sweet Ride

Do not buy Chevy Suburban 2015,2016,2017,2018

Suburban Fun

$60,000 Suburban with cracked dash

Needs the Discount!!!

Best Vehicle Ever

Best family vehicle

Great vehicle with poor GM support

Fantastic all-around vehicle

2013 Suburban LTZ

The car luddites built 

Why drive a small SUV? The Burb gets very good mpg

A great SUV, perfect for a large family or lots of cargo

Shocking Value

Great little car

Not perfect, but awfully close

My favorite car ever

Need To Make Some Changes

Love suburbans

Love it!

Proudest owner of a Chevy Suburban

The Granddaddy of SUVs

leak and shudder

Fun to drive & safe! 

My first Chevrolet Suburban LT

I Love My Suburban (Big Black)

Lemon!

I love my Suburban!

What a Fun Car!

Four Door Corvette

Initial Thoughts on the Sleeper Sports Sedan

Sedan version of the Dodo bird

Verifiable Wolf in Sheep's Clothing

wonderful drivivg machine

Only Good News

Our Tahoe

tahoe 2001  LT

Exceeding my expectations

Powerful

Exceeding my expectations

love my tahoe

Happy

Super SUV

Best truck driven on the road today...

Z-71 4WD

Got a Lemon

Peace of Mind

Run don't walk away

LS Should Mean, "Lousy Seat"

GM employees don't care about quality.

2000 LT Tahoe  - loves it

2000 Tahoe

Nice SUV

Happy with Tahoe

Nice SUV

What a truck!

Most Comfortable SUV Ever

2000 Chevy Tahoe

Had a Few Problems But Happy

have you had this problem

Tahoe now 3 years old

Much improved over the last generation

Tahoe now 3 years old

Tahoe Mom

Chevy Tahoe is a great family ride!

Tahoe is the Best

Blessed to be driving my Tahoe

Dress It Up!

Love my '05 Tahoe Z71 4X4

I got my moey's worth

2005 Chevy Tahoe 4x4

Couldn't ask for more

Purchased new in 2006 now 10 years old

'06 Tahoe

Very happy

Great SUV!

3rd Tahoe

Big Improvement Over Old Tahoe

I am again a believer

Hate to get rid of the Astro

Big Upgrade

'07 Yukon

First Chevy

Defects Galore

Review of 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe

Too many problems

Chevy has Raised the Bar

2015 Failed Transmission at about 4K miles

I like my Tahoe, but some problems

LEMON OF THE YEAR

Very expensive for nothing

Design flaws will cost you a bunch 2015 LTZ

disappointment

Blind spots and poorly designed console

Born in the USA

2015 LTZ WITH ALL THE BELLS AND WHISTLES!!!

I've Ditched German Engineering for USA!

Super Smooth riding 2015 Tahoe

By far my favorite vehicle that I've ever owned!!

New and improved yet one BIG GAP

REALLY tires to fast

2015 Tahoe interior leak

Totally regret spending $68000 on this car!

LTZ Magnetic Suspension Problems

Huge leaps forward...

Not the great expected changes in the Tahoe 2015?

Steering Column not centered

Chevy baby

Tahoe

Great car

Feels like home.

This is a nice SUV

Great SUV

Best SUV in its class out there.

Worst Decision We Ever Made

Overall A Great Vehicle, But Needs Improvement

2016 Tahoe is junk

Good SUV

LS Model is a perfect fit for most people

Luxurious Tahoe

OMG! What were they thinking!

Goodbye old Sequoia, Hello new Tahoe!! Very Happy

The TAhoe Owner

Mylink the terrible

Disappointed:(

Usb and wireless charging

Problems that GM wont fix.

First new chevy

Montahoe

Great Vehicle

Beautiful car with underlying defect

Like It

2nd Tahoe

My New 2011 Tahoe

Great vehicle

Could not be happier!

Best Tahoe ever! 

First Tahoe - Honest thoughts...

Fantastic SUV

Great Large SUV... Could Use Some Small Tweaks

Some Good, Some Bad

If you really need an SUV, choose another vehicle

Trail Blazer James

Horrible build quality

Good Vehicle, Paint Issue

Lots to like about the Tahoe

Great truck

What a truck!

2007 Cheney Tahoe LT

Stay away from the 2007 Tahoe BUYER BEWARE

124K and still Reliable

5 years later and still love my Tahoe

Best Vehicle I've ever owned.

Now we go in a Tahoe

Front end failure

The General is Back

You wont want another truck...

2008 Tahoe LS 2WD (4.8L)

BE CAUTIOUS

Not Very Reliable

GM is making a big comeback

Great for family and friends!

Oil consumption problem. Motor damage.

Happy but a few issues

Buyer Beware 

Now is the time to buy!

Don't believe the hype

Extremely Impressed - '08 Tahoe LTZ 

08 Tahoe LT

Best SUV I've ever driven

Back Hatch Problems 

Chevy Tahoe Door Lock Problems

Vibration Issues

The best car in the world

First Tahoe

Great Vehicle - Chevy Believer

Not like they used to be

Outstanding value

Hard Seats

Best Ever 2010 Tahoe ls

Good Car

Bought a Lemon

love it!

J.D. Powers Quality Awards Commercial

Tahoe LTZ 6.2L

Excellent Choice

Love this truck!

Still the Best Fullsize On the Road

Proud American Vehicle

Dependable and solid

LTZ 

Nothing but Issues No more GM products

Best Vehicle Ever Owned

My LAST Chevrolet!!!

Great New Tahoe Z71

Very disappointed

My 2010 Lemon

Love and hate

Quiet and Comfortable

Multiple Leakages

Happy But---

Great Purchase...Very Satisfied

LTZ 6.2

Disappointment

I really like mine

Best SUV Ever Made

Can't Beat A Tahoe

Really Safe and Tough

minor annoyances

Horrible car

Good SUV

End of an Era

Best car I have ever purchased

Can't break it with a bat

Great reliability, Bad build qualty 

Best Vehicle I have owned in years

I LOVE MY TRUCK !!!

'03 Tahoe

Great Truck

Outstanding Vehicle

Best Car ever

Saved my Dad's life

2010 Tahoe

Love my Tahoe

298,000 Miles and I can drive it across country!

Perfect family and work SUV

Keeps going and going....

Best SUV Ever!!! 

Best Car Ever

It's not perfect, but it's perfect for me

BEST I'VE EVER OWNED

Performance of 2006 Chevrolet Tahoe

Great alternative to the mini-van

Real Nice Ride

Tahoe Review

One awesome SUV

Nice vehicle

Tahoe is tops

After 2 years...it's still a great SUV!

Like a rock

Great Ride

Nice Truck

GM needs to improve

Some Room for Improvement

Why I'll not own another U.S. SUV

Tahoe - SUV for the Rockies

Disgusted

Truck Saved my life, very well built

not bad for a first ride

Can't beat these Tahoes!

Tahoe LT

Family Use

I like my Tahoe

Awesome

It's earned every penny i paid for it.

Z71 Off Road

As trustworthy and dependable and as an old dog

Great used vehicle !!

good rating for tahoe

Tahoe-The Best!

5.3 liter 2wd, best vehicle ever

Not So Hot

review

Nice Vehicle!

Buyer beware, no help from factory

Great for trucking around kids!

Best SUV on the Planet!!

High quality comfortable SUV

Incredible work by Chevy

Going strong at 85k mi.

Great Vehicle with one Flaw

BLAH!

Junk transmission/Fuel pump failures

I Love My Tahoe with the Cattle Catcher!

220,000 miles and almost no repairs

Proven reliability

BUY A 2001 THAOE!!!!!!!!!! BEST TRUCK EVER MADE!!!!!!!!

Great purchase!

Good Choice

Best Vehicle Ever Owned

Great SUV

SUV king

Love it!

The test

200K miles and going strong

233K Miles and Still Running Like a Champ!

Transmission Needed Replacement at 81,000

Known defects

Great SUV

Pop's old truck....2005 Z71 Tahoe 4WD

A Chevy disappointment

2005 Chevrolet Tahoe LT

consumer

So far so good

Regret selling it everyday

Excellent Performance

Finally ... An SUV I Can Enjoy

new truck

Whining sound from air conditioner

Awesome Tahoe

Best vehicle around

2002 Z71 Tahoe Review

2002 Tahoe LT w/Autoride

This was the best car I've owned!

check engine light

Reliable. Period 

Timing Chain

Back pain from seats

Very Happy With Our Purchase

2009 chevy traverse

many many issues

Love/Hate relationship

Eats coil packs like a fatty eats donuts

SO DISAPPOINTED

Very Poor MPG

LTZ 2010

Not what I was expecting

AC Comes in and Out

Traverse - Stay Away From It!

Great suv!

Always At The Dealer For Repairs

15 mpg - GM told me that's not bad for this car

I like the Traverse, but don't think it's worth the cost.

2010 Traverse

Do Not Buy 2011 Traverse

Back to the Drawing Board

Cheaply assembled, Money Pit.

Look elsewhere....

Always needs someone repaired

Traverse........What a piece of 

Extremely Disappointed!`

Seat belt trouble

Love the Interior

Buyer beware!!!!

Active Little SUV

Trax making Tracks

Traxx is awesome

I though ahhhh but now I love it

Techy Trax LS 2016

Love my 2016 Trax LT

Love My Trax

2016 Trax LT w/ Convenience Package, Sun & Sound

Great little SUV.

Chevy Trax Review

The Triumphant Trax

Great car Trax

Amazing suv if you can get a Chevy deal

This car saved my wife's life

Nice ride!!

Making Trax!

More umpf than they give it credit for

Great value

Pleasantly surprised!

The best car I ever had

LEASE IT, DON'T BUY IT

2015 New Traverse caught on fire while parked!

I love this car!

I had this for a week, as a rental, and hated it

Great SUV, few downsides

Surprise purchase

Extremely impressed

Pleasantly surprised

I Bought A Used 2015, But Still A Beautiful Ride

The MyLink System Absolutely Blows

Review of Traverse

This is an excellent vehicle

I Love My traverse!

Love it

Clunking??    Need advice! Please

Wow in LOVE

Love it except for----

Be Cautious!!!

A lot of room for everybody!!!

My very first SUV

Top ROI for: Family or Big Dogs!

I LOVE MY TRAVERSE !!!!

A great family SUV

Nice car but a pain in the neck

Impressed Chevy Owner 2013

2013 Traverse: Extremely Happy!

GREAAAAT!!

Reliable Confortable SUV

A Lot For The Money

Get ready to spend money on a lemon

Save our life

Good

Always wanted one until we bought one!

Happy with this ride

2011  Chevrolet Traverse, Super SUV!

Built for safety!

Nice and roomy, poor running

Engine failure at 56,000 miles

Power Steering rack out with less than 50,000 mile

Auto Transmission a potential death trap

Poor Fuel Mileage

Great Bang for the Buck

Great car but for the Noxious Fumes that enter when stopping

Just OK

Great space and ride, poor reliability

Hate my car.  Really

X

So far so good

Great Vehicle

First month in SUV

2 weeks of enjoyment

Lemon

Just Bought it Yester"night"

Affordable, Capable and Comfortable

Chevy Traverse's are unsafe at any speed.

Best vehicle I've ever owned.

2012 Traverse STAY AWAY

2012 Traverse 30-Day Review

After One-Year, Very Happy w/Purchase

2012 Traverse LTZ AWD

Be careful unless you enjoy tow truck rides.

2012 Traverse

Stepped up to something bigger

traction control and stabilitrak systems 2nd time

Very satisfied until 92,000

Disappointed 

Headrests stopped me from purchasing

One of the best

Too many corners cut!

Front end problems

Worst vehicle I've ever owned

Road Trip King

2010 Traverse could improve some

My traverse premier

Chevrolet Traverse -- one fine vehicle!

Love My Traverse

great first experience

Nice car for the price

Sleeper vehicle

Tons of space!

The Traverse, my first.

Dream Traverse

Poor Quality Backup Camera

Driving Machine.

Transmission Failed!

Traverse is junk !

STEER CLEAR OF THIS VEHICLE!

Pass Lock Engages

Steering Shaft defect

Horrible 2009 Traverse

Ridiculous piece of trash

Transmission repair at 117k miles... and others!

My New Car - Love it

Family Hauler Tank.

Poor Fuel Economy

don't buy if you have car seats . . .

could be better

My New 2016 Traverse

Love this car

Great SUV

Love the upgrade from a minivan!

Good Overall Utility Vehicle

poor design

Chev Traverse 1LT

Love it. Comfortable, utile, nice looking

New car since 1981

Interior design

worst suv ever

Great Road Trip Vehicle

Positives outweigh negatives

Love it!!!!

First 10K across the USA

You won't be sorry.

Just bought Tahoe

Love it

Luxury SUV

What A Ride!

I love my Volt!

My second Volt

Worth a look

from the dealer's lot to the service bay

2016 review

A SPORTY AND STYLISH GAME CHANGER

Hats off to GM

My 1st GM vehicle in 30 years

My Volt after 3 months and 3100 miles

Volt

Just reached 12K miles and so far so good..

Amazing technology, fun to drive, but at a price

5K miles 2 CEL's and 12 days in service bay

Buyer Beware!

Chevy Hit It Out of the Ball Park

Well Rounded Car

2006 A3 3.2Q

New Audi A3... Loving It!

all of these reviews are dead on

Quattro BLAST!

Best car I have ever owned.

Great Technology and great car

Nice job Chevrolet!

Surpassed expectations

Love this Volt and the fuel savings

DSG Rocks

Great car let down by DSG

The Truth, a REVIEW you need to READ

Saved My Life

Safe well built car

Not what I expected...

What a Car!  

Livesaver!

Not impressed

Think twice before you buy

Audi A3 dissapointed

Little Car, No Compromise

200 hp with 4-cylinder (turbo)!

My three years with an A3

Wow

Excellent, Fun Car for the Money!

Overall a great car

The big little German 

Why didn't I buy one sooner?

Jose's review

Little Green Machine

Two weeks old

Audi TDI

A3 TDI perfection!

Still in love

First Update

One of the vehicles I've owned that I will miss.

Still the best.

Great car when it runs

A great ride

Great

Audi A3 auto

Fun to drive but glad I leased it

Wish I had never bought an A4

PURCHASED BECAUSE OF IIHS TOP SAFETY PICK

A3 TDI review - Edmonds doesn't offer option

Reliability Issues

Relatively Great Fun

So far so good

Just what I needed

Outstanding Performance

Beware of heated seat issues

Great Blend of Fun and Fuel Economy

All owners MUST have an extended warranty!!

Fun car not disapointed

Almost There - but Audi got a bit cheap on this vehicle

bittersweet: sweet to drive, bitter to maintain

A lot to like

A3 TDI

2010 audi a3 2.0t quattro titanium pkg.

Acceleration issue?

Great car

Fun and Style

Great car, poor execution of technology

Dream Drivetrain Finally Available 

Great Improvements Made for 2009

First import for my garage

3rd audi

Great sporty car

Entry Level Luxury

Best deal for your money

Nice ride, but it will cost you

A GTI in a suit

Not Reliable...Never Again!

Looks good but constant minor issues

a year and 30k miles in my A3

2013 AWD Ford Fusion Titanium

Fusion 1.6 not 2.5

Quattro for life

A3 Is my bad boyfriend

Love Love Love It!

King of the Mountain

Great car

Problems with Audi

Most FUN car EVER!

Perfect City Car; Compact Luxury.

I Love This Car!

Gets in its own way

Think it over

Re-Review to BAD

Simply well done

Fast, Fun, Reliable, and Comfortable!

Fun to drive. Poor to maintain.

German Engineering?..i get it now.

Just Awesome

Speeding in SF

Ten Year Review

Better than 2015 Golf TSI, Worse than 1997 Golf

The Full Package!

Pound for pound...

Redefining the Pocket Rocket! 

In the pocket

A3 - what a car

New GM is Just  Public Relations Gimmick

uncomfortable seat

Love this car!

Great Car

THIS is the perfect car for right now

2014 Volt Rocks!

Stoplight racer - no fumes

Chevy Volt rocks

Great commuter car -spare car

Not what it's claimed to be

Love My A3

Sporty & Practical

Only one problem...

Good Service, Junk Car

What a dissapointment!!

It pays for itself - $5500 so far

Why would you buy a Prius?

Best car I ever bought - hands down!

3.7 year impressions

Better than a Prius by far!

Highest Owner Satisfaction Two Years In.A Row

Go test drive one!

Perfect carr for both Electric and Hybrid driving...

New Volt Owner

Love the Volt!

Much Better Than Expected

Amazing!

Positive volt

Had it for 6 months now and love it

Electric Car Adopter

Chevy Volt - Infotainment System Issues

One sweet vehicle

One year review with second Volt

over-engineered cockpit, but a joy to drive

Expensive leading PHEV w cramped interior

Frequent Visitor to Dealership

Way to Go GM!!

First 1,000 miles in a '13 Volt

Have been to the gas station 4 times in 4 years...

Glad I finally bought the Volt

my first electric car

Best Used Car you can buy

Fun and economical drive, but poor controls

The combination of a Volt and a Bolt will rock

2013 Volt - Nice Small Csr

2013 Volt

6 months in with the Volt

2013 Volt is a Geek Dream

Great car! just needs a few minor tweaks.

Car Snob Humbled by Volt

Better than my 540i

The future of the Automobile

Best car I've ever owned

My Black Volt - 
I Hate my Volt

Volt 
Fun and Practical

This car is a winner, in every way possible.

Best car I've ever leased.

Amazing Machine

The best Car we have ever owned

Like no other car I've ever driven...

2012 Volt in the hills and mountains of North Georgia

Really? No Spare tire at all?

Volt performance excellent

Beware as they age....

I Love My Volt - 2012

2012 Volt Experience

2012 Volt - Climb the Mountains, Enjoy the Turns

I love my Volt more then my Ferrari...

A Home Run!

Meets All Expectations...and more

Levitation-like smoothness

Shazam!

After 6 months - 308 mpg

Volt is a No-Brainer over Prius

No. 2392, 9 months, 26000 miles, OK

Excellent car but beware if you have an accident!

I love this car

Cold Weather Volt Owner

Best Car I've Ever Owned

Amazing Economic Sportscar

Best Car Ever

Fantastic car for city driving

Best car ever!

Great and affordable EV Car

tech and fun

Why

Volt is the answer

Better than the 2012 in every way

Generation 2 is Better than Generation 1

My third Volt . . . and still my favorites

2017 Volt LT

How could you NOT buy this car?

Paint it ain't !

The way of the near-term future...

Best car I ever owned

This Volt Delivers

Fun to Drive and Great Milage

RIP combustion engine

Amazing technology for the money

Quite & fun car to drive but needs improve in intr

The First Volt was Great, the 2016 is Excellent.

Great car, Powerful EV

Not a bad SUV...Not a great SUV

Great combination of EV and road tripper

Great Car - Worth Waiting For!

2017 Volt LT  The ultimate commuter car

My third hybrid, and easily the best so far.

Grito

A car you find reasons to drive

I'm 47 years old and this is my 77th car! Crazy!

The Best of All Worlds

Love being in my EV vehicle

Awesome car

Excellent upgrade to the original

Love the volt

Volt and Solar Panels are a great payback

Volt vs Tesla is a no brainer

1.5 Years 18K Miles - Great Car

Great but Place of CD poor

Great car, but needs improvement

Very unreliable.

Horrible experience with Audi A3 Cabriolet

gremlin with horrible support

A great smaller Audi

2015 Audi A3 1.8 Premium w/ Driver Assist Package

Fun to Drive but maintainance high

Great ride, poor reliability

Only Oil and Gas - Great car

A4 rules

not again

31,000 miles of fun

Come on now, do your homework.

Truth in Mpg 44.2

My favorite car ever, with a few warts.

Buy something else

audi 2000

Audi A-4q "Never Follow"

Ultimate Audi

Wonder when the other shoe will drop

Best car I've ever owned

A Great Car

audi a4

My audi

Mistake

Disappointed

autobahn here I come

A4 2.8 Quattro

Audi Nightmare!!!

It is what it is...

Best car I've ever owned!

1999 Audi A4 2.8 AWD

Quattro!

A Leason Learned

1999 Audi A4 2.8

Won't change it for the world

Bad luck or actual crap of a vehicle

Awesome, but high cost of ownership

Don't buy this car

Greatest ski car

Good for a horrible winter driver

Perfect

I Like it Alot!!!!!

Good, if you can find a maintained one

Awesome car

OVER 160K  AND THE CAR JUST WONT DIE

Will not give up my 2.8

Don't Do It - As Much As You May Want To

Performance at an affordable price

Rev it up!

keeps going and going..

106K miles and no problems yet

Perfect combination ...

Head turner!

Audi A4 3.0 AWD 6M

looks,quality,surefooted, but no go!

quality

2004 Audi A4 3.0

Audi A4 2004 V6 3.0 6M Ultra Sport

DON'T BUY THIS CAR IT IS GARBAGE!!!

Nice Car

Audi -Never again

Love and hate, go hand in hand for this car.

REALLY

A disappointment

attn: door slammers

Fun to drive, but a steep investment in repairs.

My dream(affordable) car

Very happy after ten months

Must read before buying german car

Love it!

Love My Audi A4

Safety first

A4 Avant

It's pretty decent for the price

Get extended warranty

Loving It For 2 Months Now

Don't buy 

2008 A3 2.0T (DSG)

Fun Fast Practical - One Package

Money to blow?

This Audi Has Won Me Over

Fantastic Car

Former BMW/MBZ Driver - Now an Audi Driver

Great Car

Very reliable

Highly recommended

2nd owner of this wonderful vehicle

2006 Audi A4 2.0 Turbo Quattro - great car

Be warned....

Fun to drive, costly to own

Buyer Beware

Very Satisfied

One of my best purchases!

Love it!

Looks good, but...

Awful, awful, AWFUL!

Fun to drive but MAJOR Flaws

Fun car but

$700 fuel pump

Cabriolet Review

Does 2005 Audi A4 need a recall?

Worst Car I have ever bought!!!

All Around Package

Great Car, but it has its Highs and Lows

Welp..

What a great car !!

Awesome Car!!!

Cute car with LOTS of problems

A4 has performance but costly repairs

Save your money for repairs

Lemonade on Wheel

Audi Audit Announcement

Never buy an Audi

Great Looking, But ...

Beautiful Disaster

Best Car ever Owned

Love hate relationship

AUDI has not yet learned to build reliable cars !

I love it, but I hate it too.

Still happy after 10 months

Audi A4 3.0 Quattro with Manual

Never went one day without problems

Sooo fun to drive, when it's not broken

Love my Avant

Waiting for the other shoes to drop

I'll take issue with BMW

Disappointed

stay away!

Downhill After 45K

The Audi A4 V6 3.0 Are Made for Speed Period

Great Car

Audi does it best

Too many expensive repairs

=( 

2003 A4 Quattro 3.0L

Bitter Sweet

outstanding drop top

Beautiful car not worth your time

One Great Car!!

Dream Car

Great little car

Would buy another Audi A4 1.8T

May I have Another!

Do not buy

Typical Euro car with high maintenance needs

Take care of it and it will take care of you

Excellent car

Love my red a4 3.0 quattro

Like the other reviews

A rebadged VW w/ nothing to offer

It's no Honda or Toyota

2001 A4 Avant 

My Audi experience

Almost perfect - Highly Recommended

Fun, but ughhh

Love Hate Relationship

Good, if not great...

Nice ride, when it's not in the shop...

Solid Car but Know it well

Too many problems

Very great vehicle for the price.

2001 A4 1.8T

Very disappointed

Love Hate Relationship

Excellent Car!

Just keep up with maintenance. easy

First Time Audi Buyer

Solid little car

Amazing and Costly

Reliability isn't bad, but could be better

Great car!!

2001 Audi A4 Quattro 2.8

Maintain it and it will run excellent

extremely solid car

Great car

Lovin it so far

WORST CAR I'VE EVER OWNED

Wonderful, but be good with a wrench

Audi

Still Holding Up

Please help me sell my lemon

Great Buy

Was a very nice car.

The old ones are more fun

Still love the car

207,000 and still runs strong!!!

Quater Million Miles and still going strong!

Practical Performance

OH YEAH! THIS CAR OWNS!!

Tons of fun!

Love my AUDI A4 1.8 AWD

Gentlemen, Open Your Wallets

Terrific reliable car, but costly

My 5th German car and best yet!

2.8l Quattro

Sweet and solid 2.8 5 speed

Daily Driven & Canyon Carved

Own two A4's

Costly to drive

10 year old car feels like New

Why did I purchase this car?

A4 ......my few words........eulogy

Expensive repairs

I love my 1997 Audi A4

Audi is a pain and Don Rosen is not good

Great Audi If taken care of.

Expensive

Great Car

Poor quality car

Amazing

Great car overall

fun little machine

My Third Quattro - Highly Recommended

Fabulous Choice!

Sure isn't a Honda or Toyota!!

97' A4 2.8L Quattro-Automatic

11 years old still great

Very Reliable

Summary

Great Car but Expensive to Maintain

The Sweet & Sour Audi

Repairs! Repairs! Repairs!

Loved my A4

ridiculously unreliable

All round excellence!

My favorite Audi yet

Love hate relationship

First Teutonic love affair

Great Mix of Sport and Luxury.

Love it!

A mix of Good and bad

Transmission Issues

I said "Bye, Felicia!" to a BMW 328 for this car

Truth in Egineering?

Love my Audi

Worth It

Nice

Buyer Beware!

I love my Audi, my Audi loves my wallet!

Pleasantly surprised.

Best interior in its class

The best damn little car I ever had!

Luxury in a smaller package

New A3 a winner

Small Luxury at reasonable price

Pre-lease Test Drive

Love my Audi!

Awesome convertible - Tricky transmission*

Great Car, Terrible Vibration

Bang for your buck

A Goldilocks car: just right!

Empty Nesters Love 2016 Audi Cabriolet

2016 Audi A3 Love Mine!

Fantastic!

Go buy a BMW 3 Series

Fun & Then Some

The little wagon that could

Awesome Vehicle

A4 Avant is one of the ultimate NW vehicles

Amazing Vehicle

Great car but can do so much better

Love it so far.

2008 Audi A4 2.0T Avant

Great Car

Disappointed Audi Owner

freaking garbage

Fantastic

1st Audi

Disappointed

A5 Something to Look at

My first car =)

Sleek, solid, & quick!

What a beauty!

Fantastic Car

Go For Quattro

Audi A5 Cabriolet

A5 Premium Plus convertible

Awesome

WOW....Love this car!!!

50+ Guy's Dream Car

Ex Beamer Adict

Pimp ride

love my car

A sow's ear

a slug

45 days into the car A5 Coup

So Far So Good

after 4 months and 4100 miles

2011 Audi A5 is so so but fun

Since its 

A nice change to the typical coupe

Lovely Car..But a Gateway Drug

Audi Grand Slam

Out of the world

Reliable sporty coupe that still looks great

Perfect balance of style and luxury

I'm in love

Car has it all

Get a BMW, Cadillac, Mercedes or anything else!

Fun car

A car you can Drive all year round

bluetooth, terrible

Dreams wrapped in metal

Beautiful Car, Poor Gas Mileage and Ride

Auto like

Definitely not worth what it costs

Fun Car!

A drivers car with all the right features

You get everything for the price

Roadworth+ !!!!

Best convertible

I'm impressed so far

Great car and 36+MPG!

Excellent Value!

Worth It

The Car Everyone Wants - Literally

Very unhappy with quality of Car

Audi-awesome car

A5 Convertible is a delightful year-round driver!

Convertible Top Broke Twice in 2 years - dont buy!

Awesome AWD, fun, road-gripping, head-turning

Great car

Pretty But With Issues

very unhappy with quality and service

Glad to be rid of this car

A Head Turner Without Question

Worth the wait

First Luxury Sedan--Value Decision

my first audi

Great looks fun to drive

A4 avant prestige sport 19 inch

Nothing like a manual!

Great Car

Bought a new car- not enough power- to expensive t

Best all around for sport and luxury

Very good value for the money

Love this car

Perfect Ride

My first Audi!

2011 Audi A4 have faulty rings and burn oil

High tech goodies in a great ride

Love it!

No major repairs

Fun car, but build quality needs improvement

Failed Turbo before 100k Miles

Fun factor

Oil Consumption

Understated sports/lux sedan

Great Car!

Unreliable but good looking

great balance

Former Bimmer fan

After a thorough search, this is what I found

So far, exceeding all expectations and then som

Spectacular Beauty

Oil Oil Oil and it beeps too much

Had it for 6 months an still enjoy it!

Great car with one fatal flaw for long distance commuters

Used to love Audis :( 

2010 Audi A4 Burns Oil

Audi A4 burns oil

Fun to drive, but not worth it in the long run.

2010  Audi A4  Buy used, It's a better bargain!!!!

Oil Consumption fixed

New a4 premium plus

Smoothest car

great new toy

Two for the road

So much fun to drive!!

2010 Audi A4 2.0 T Prem Plus

Great looking car - reliable? Not so much

Audi A4 Wagon, great car but is an oilaholic!

Be careful with this one

2.0t oil consumption solutions

dynamics = great, everything else = meh/poor

So far, so good.

2012 Audi A4 Premium Plus

Premium with NAV

I love this car

Transmission problem on new car

This car burns oil

A4 Disappointment

Struck the (almost) perfect balance

Overpriced and sparse

Love my A4, great value

Poor transmission on the front track model

Cannot duplicate

Love this car

Excellent car

Think twice....

Perfect Car

Awesome Car

Sold on the A4 

Meltdown

Budget Luxury!

Great car and right price

Great Entry Level Sedan A4 3.2 6MT

Greatest Car I've Owned

Just an exceptional joy to drive

So far so good 

Fantastic after 112k miles

I wouldn't buy it again

This car rocks!

2007 A4 Cabriolet Quattro

Great Car!!  185K 

Don't buy this car

A good choice for its class

Loyal A4 driver disappointed

Car burns oil

Oil Consumption issues resolved

Massive and frequent transmission failures

New Audi Owner

Great car for enthusiasts only

Just Plain Fun

Best bang for your buck for an AWD luxury sedan

A really good luxury car

Love it!

Exceptional quality -- bad sound system

My engine is gone!!! fabric defect very Sad

Our First Audi

Fantastic Vehicle

Want a dipstick?

Can not wait to sell this car.

8000 mile update

Great car but not reliable.

The best amongst the Germans

I think my live was worth $37K

Wolf in Sheep's CLothes

Audi stands behind their Product!!! Forever a Fan!

A4 Sedan with Prestige Package

2009 A4- stay away

Best Car EVER!

AUDI A4 ....What a dissapointment!!

HORRIBLE CAR MECHANICALLY

Very nice car, but unreliable acceleration

Distinguished

Definitely not a driver's car

All new A4 Premium Plus

Great value for this segment; hits the sweet spot

excellent design, reliability much worse than in the past

Awesome after 24000 miles

Better than A5 Cab

47,000 Miles

2009 A4 Burns Oil

Love my car

Comfort and performance

2017 Audi A4 sets luxury entry level

2017 a4 prestige

Sport Package makes a world of difference

Audi buyers beware!!!

Way Too Many Problems....

Audi A4 3.2 Quattro Prestige, Sports Pac

Save some money and buy a Jetta

excessive oil consumption and many other problems

2017 A4... Audi steps up it's game

Pleasently surprised

Do Not Get the Aluminum Decorative Inlay

Audi Newbie and loving it!

Simply perfect, but after 5k miles

Be still my beating heart!

Outstanding tech wrapped around a really good car

Love my Gotland Green 2017 A4

From a 328 xi to my new A4!

First Sedan in 20 Years!

Oil Consumption Machine

A4 lemon?

Burns oil

So Far So Fun

Very happy

Great shopping experience aided by the Edmunds

Good car, unreliable acceleration

Great Audi

Certified Pre Owned program 2016 Audi A4 quattro

Audi A4 great car!!

It's all fun 'n games, until catastrophe happens..

Great car (while in warranty)

Less Impressed Than I'd Hoped

Great and comfortable car

2008 Good commuter but definitely not a 3-series.

Not worth the money

Why, Audi, Why?

The Wanderer

Accessibility isn't easy

Ding Dong the Witch is DEAD!

Buy a USED Audi

All about the Design

Good Car

Smooth German Machine

Audi A6 Quattro

audi = garbage

garbage

A car that does every thing well!

Turbos=torque.  Torque=fun

Electrical nightmare

The Last Mohigan- 215K! 

Fun to drive

So far so good...

High maintenance

Nice performance car for the money

Great Wagon

Great Car

4 wheel driftin'

'96 Audi A6 Avant Ownership

THE WORST CAR I HAVE EVER OWNED...HATE IT

German quality....but

A6 Nice Daily Driver

Confidence of a Tank

A real runner

Take care of beauty

Sweet car!

A^ - Oh What a Life Saver

An honest review on Audi A6 3.0 Quattro

2003 Avant I love it

Luxury Worth A Look!

Affordable Luxury

Audi's Quality is not good

Still love it after 6 yrs & $$ to keepup

Fun Until......

2005 Audi A6 C6 3.2Q Sport Package

great ride if you dont mind spending for it

Not very good service

As Safe As They Say

I love my CPO A6 4.2

Audi quality

Late starting

Audi 2005 A6

Best in class

Audi 05 Rocks!

10+ for WOW Factor!!

Love My A6 4.2L S-Line

Awesome First Car

Buy anything else!

A6 "A Technical Nightmare"

Audi A6

Goodbye Audi!

Awsome Car

Great Ride!!!!

Leased Audi

Rocket Ship

Not For the "Me Too" Crowd 

a previous BMW 5 series  now an A6 2.7T 

Looks Great, Drives even better!

Second A6 2.7 T

AUDIOS to BMW and Mercedes!

Audi A6 2.7T S-Line

Elegance in Motion

2004 A6 S-Line

A6 S-type...Hot

A6 yeah baby

2004 model year has the best reliability

Awesome Audi A6

Nice, Costly Family Sportster

Audi 3.0 FWD

Once you go QUATTRO you cant go back!

Pre-owned yields luxury at a reasonable price

Phenomenal Car

Purchased Used with 62k miles

Great Car

Audi by JJ

Audi A6 2.8

Germany's best production

Beautiful car, wish it was more reliable

Costly to Own

Old Audi A6 - 1999 Shines with 226000 mi

Great all around family car

At the Crossroads

Love the ride - hate cost of ownership

16 Years Strong

My 2007 Audi A6 delivers.

A6 4.2 - A Blast to Drive!

Blast to Drive and Style too

Perfect design and performance

Great as usual

I love it!!!

Always in need of repairs.

2007 Audi After 1 year and 11,500 Miles

My A6

Delayed acceleration and squeaky brakes

1999 A6

My First Car

Winter Use Only

Owner's nightmare: mechanic's dream.

1999 A6 quattro

Excellent vehicle

A great looking Wagon

Shocking good

Pleasant Surprise

Classy ride

Perfection

My Choice over BMW 528ix, Infinity M35x 

A Must Drive

It delivers on all levels

Love it!

A  Positive Viewpoint

The perfect all-weather luxo tourer

Style 

Bad Decision to Buy

2006 A6 Quattro

Great Car - back it up

I'm in Luv!

Very happy with my purchase

Truly worth buying

Terrific CPO purchase

Nice!

Big jump from my old Jeep Grand Cherokee

2007 4.2 S line A6

Perfect rendition of my vision of an LPS

Best Bang for your Quarta!

Cheap to buy, Expensive to maintain

Great Styling but defective brakes 

Truly a WOW car!

Great car with hefty maintenance price

What a Porsche 911 Aspired to be, not too long ago...

 2002 Audi A6 2.7T quattro AWD

Better than BMW

Audi A6

My 2002 4.2

A6 2.7T

Joy to drive, pain to spend needlessly for repairs

Love this Car

A real gem; a GREAT used bargain!

Love this car!

A6 unreliable

Streamlined Beauty

fun

Nice to drive when you can

Worst Car I've EVER Owned

Worst car I ever loved...

German Engineering 

None Better!

2003 A6 3.0 AWD

2003 Audi A6 Quatro Wagon

Well worth the cons. 

4.2 quattro..the way to go

Bad Choice

You need one of these

Impress yourself

Feels great

7 years and still like new

Most Luxurious 98,000 mile life disposable car

2006 A6 Owner

Hurts to sell this one...

Electronics can be a hassle

I love this car!

High tech sedan

I'm In love With this car

Gets expensive after 70,000 miles

It's a great driver and fun to drive

Love my Audi 2.7T

Review

Incredible driving machine - will spoil you

Beauty in Motion

Fun While It Lasted

300K Miles and Still Going

2nd owner

Great car to drive

I love my AWD A6 Wagon

Great well rounded car

Owned it for 2 yrs

2000 Audi A6 quattro 2.7t  My green alligator

This is a great car!!

A6

no more audi's for me!

Good all around package

I'll buy another one

Oldie but goodie

A6 2.8 Quattro Sedan

I LOVE this Car!!!

What Should I Do?

Great car but...

Never again

Don't buy a 2000 A6Q

Glad I bought the 4.2l

multiple oil leaks

Like a bleached blonde

Well Worth it!

Quid Pro Quo

Stay away from this model

1997 A6 Quattro

The Real Audi

Take care of it & it'll take care of U

Quattro

Awesome Ride

50,000 miles, sell it! 80,000 but it.

Better than any SUV or CUV built!

Gotta Get One

audi A-6Quatto

This is a nice car

1997 Audi A6 Review

1997 Audi A6 Quattro

Wow! Nice Car!

Tank Solid Reliable Luxury

This is a GREAT car, er...wagon!

Audi A6 2.8 Quattro

One Bad (Awesome) Audi

Bought it used.. too expensive to fix!!

Great to drive, horrible to maintain

Buy something else

Buy one pre owned

Absolute Tank!

Great car 

Fun but a PAIN

Save your Money!

Security

Perfecto

Piece of junk

Love Hate Relationship

If I could buy a new car like this one I would.

CONTROL ARMS CONTROL ARMS

Fun Car

Love the car - hate the repairs

greatness

Loyality will now be spelled A-U-D-I

Fun to drive car

The SUV killer: the A6 Quattro Wagon

Too bad they don't make an A8 wagon!

German Junk

Great Design, Poor Reliability

Wonderful, luxurious car

Ultimate bad weather beater

95 Audi A6 Quattro

Great car, dodgy service in UK (europe)

Nap's Audi

still runs perfect

Worthwhile Upgrade From 2014 Audi A5 Cabriolet

Do your research before you buy a 2017 Audi A5 Cab

The Great. Audi Converitable Silver

First time Audi Owner

German engineering at its best

I love this car

jackclt

Buy One

Love this car!

Sweet A6

Resale price drops significantly

Love my car!!

Best car i've ever owned.

Great driver's car

Brakes

Expected More

2014 Audi A6 - After 6 months

2011 Audi A6 3.0T Prestige - A True Sports Sedan

Good car for what I pay

V8 is the better choice

First luxury car

Still beautiful

Performance and Class

Solid Replacement for the A4 Wagon

All around excellent vehicle

Great mover

All Road is Not All That

Papa Bill's Allroad

All road fan

Great Choice - Go with the 2.0

Excellence isn't cheap, but it's worth it

Style class and comfort

Little annoyances that add up

TDI!

Incessant Brake Squealing

Best in class

Beautiful body, tough on tires,

Pretty great car

Perfect car

2.0 Quattro plenty of power. 

The performance/MPG sweet spot

2014 Audi 3.0 Quattro Premium Plus

Simply Superb Mid-Sized Luxury Sedan

Nice Car Could Use Some Tweaks

Overall excellence

Blown Cylinder @ 48K

A great car for the upper midwest

The best of the best

Absolutely Incredible!

forget BMW, Mercedes, and Jaguar

2013 A6 Audio System Problems

Best Car I've Had (Overall)

2011 A6 QUATTRO 3.0T

Bang for your buck

Unreliable Driving Machine

V8 is awesome

Love the A6...

Way beyond my expectations

Awesome car with painful seats

Really Enjoying My A6

Audi A6 w/20" Sport Package classes them all

Beyond My Expectations

Unreal

This Car Picked Me!

Loving my car, but...

Sleeper

Audi A6 v. BMW 535xi

Incredible, Fabulous ... WOW!!!

Sporty car, great interior, great for family

Great fun

The Best car I ever drove

2-time Audi owner

Very Nice Ride

2013 A6 2.0T Quattro

The best value in true luxury sedans

Fantastic Car..........but

Great Looking but Unreliable

Wow, very impressed

Great Choice

Drive it!

Superbowl commercial got me

Coolant pump failure

Car Pit

Audi A6 3.0T Quatro

Really want to love this car but

Audi misleads on A-6

Nice, smooth, sleek

Audi Convert

First 1,000 miles

too early to regret

Short review after 1400 miles- A6

don't drive if you spend winters driving to ski country

Pure Engineering

Wanted this car since 2005

Short review after 1400 miles- A6

Traded up from the A4

Too many problems

2010 A6 3.0T Premimum Plus

First Year w/ Audi A6

Just buy it

Best Audi A6 to date.

performance enhanced luxury

Snow Monster - Love It

first 1000 miles

So Far so great

Causes silly grin on face while driving

German Gem with Head Turning Looks

Love This Car....

Almost perfect!

Innovative, fast, unusually competent

German "cruise" missile

Slick, Hot, Functionally Awesome

This car is awful. Bad is too mild 

100K and going strong

Perfect Car

1st Audi A6 review

Disappointed

Bought used

Not what I was expecting

Strong and very Reliable car

58k miles and still GREAT

2008 Audi A6 4.2 - The Perfect Car

Annoying quirks

Poor Audi Quality

Not happy!

So far, so good

Plagued with problems

I never want to be without one!

Happy in Virginia

My Third Childhood...

My Wife Calls it "The Spaceship", I call it Heaven

Awesome Audi A7

Frustrating

Almost in love....

Not sure if it's worth it

Still a great car at 105K

Bought New - My 3rd and best A-6

Most awesome car I have ever owned

It was my second choice.

Love the Audi A6

You pay way for way overpriced Honda Accord

Audi A6

What you really need to know before you buy

Good Buy

Hidden tiger

Traded In My '14 For A New '16

Not bad, but still disappointed

Great to drive

Best car I've ever bought!

Last car

Still a dream car after a 18 months....

First Audi, added another already.

The best luxury sedan

Can Handle all Kinds of Weather

What a Car

Still in the honeymoon phase

Audi Up

Best car I've ever had.

Techno Car

Third Time is NOT the Charm

Comfortable, Quiet, Easy Handling, Fuel Efficient

Best Car I Have  Purchased

rear end review.

Not the newest German mid size but still great

2017 A6

"Extended Warranty Required"

W12 my best yet

Oh yea

I love this car

Automotive Intelligence - The Audi A8 

Love my car

All around best used car I ever bought

FUN

Great value for high end car!!!

GREAT CAR !!!!!!!!!!!!!!

rattles

A Great Car

Best luxury car for the money

Perfect

Love this car!

MPG or GPM?????

Excellent Touring Car

4th and best Audi

Bellisimo!

All around best daily driver.

Excellent car

Luxury Driving At Its Nicest

A8 L worst car ever owned!

Waste of time and money

Total Disaster

Best money I ever spent on a car.

Truly fine automobile

120K miles retrospective

40k-110k review

Best car I've ever had

Fantastic Car..

Best Luxury Sedan Value

Audi A8 L  Luxury for Life

Best Luxury Value

THE BEST EVER!

Your luxury car has arrived

What can be finer?

Beautiful Car

On my Second!!!

Quiet and solid

Fantastic car

Solid Luxury

Better than the rest

Timeless Quality and Performance

Fun to drive luxury

Top Shelf

Ultimate Q-ship

Audi does European delivery

A8 still the best

Understated Elegance

Fun to Drive/True Luxury

Can It Really Get Any Better Than This?

Best of the lot

A8L Great Car

Couldn't be happier

Engine management

Audi Satisfaction

A8 L  Perfection

audia8

Horrible Experience

abundance of luxury

The Best of 2005 luxury car

Beauty with flaws

Poor Quality

Best sedan yet

most expensive POS audi i ever bought!!!!!!!!

Outstanding

BYE BYE BMW!

Best Luxury Auto

Glad we selected the A8

Techno overkill

Three great months and counting...

Simply awesome... best of the class

Officially switched from BMW to Audi

The Best

Great Car

Fun to drive, but rotten electronics

Fix the MMI

A lot of car for the money, great value 

frustrated

Good Techology, terrible phone system

The Best Luxury Car Ever!

Lexus and Mercedes Move Over!

Love my Audi A8L

An Ideal Car

MB 550 vs. the Audi A8L 4.2 

Great Value for Money

Best Sedan In its class

The 2006 A8 Got Me to Switch

3 Years Of Great Driving!

Overrated

A pleasure to drive, nightmare to own

Great car but...

Terrible surprise

A Bonza Beauty Mate

A8L will always be my only car

Love my new A8L

It has a Mind of its Own

Great Car, Poor Service

Great Car Bad Company

Like it alot

YOWZA!!

Love Hate Relationship

Expensive Unreliability

If only it had two batteries

Heartache/headache

Should the flagship retire?

Audi A8

Objective Review

Love This Car!

A Great Car

2001 A8 D2 Quattro 4.2L V8 5V

All Cars have Maintenance Costs.

A8 in north palm beach

Great car, but make sure it's certified

I love my Audi

The 740i's & S430's serious alternative

Please do not buy this Audi!

Simply Outstanding Auto

Give me a brake (yes brake)

Unhappy A8L Owner

Audi A8 L

Audi A8L Review

2000 Audi A8 4.2 litre Quattro

Understated Luxury and great value

find bellow

Excellent stealth vehicle

excellent driving

Good car

A8 is Sweet

awesome car

A8 my dust

It's No Lexus!!

Best Luxury Car On TheMarket

Excellent car, but be warned..

Love at first drive

Unbelieveably Bad Experience

Drive of a lifetime

Understated and Overlooked

Audi A8

Audi A8 -- great for mountain living

This is a Great Automobile

Effortless grace -- and eat my dust too.

Purchase off lease & happy

Audi A8 3.7

Fun To Drive but Unreliable

My 1999 A-8

Never follow

What a car!

My A8: So close to being a great car

One of the Best BigEuro Sedans ever made

Poor visability and Arrogant Audi

A8 for life

The Perfect Sleeper

Audi Won My Heart with My 1st A6

Love my quattro A8

Cost of Disappointment

160000 miles  Just like new

Lovin the A8

Vermont A8

Unique

Stef's A8

Quattro

Should be illegal in US

Used A8 is great value

BUY ME!

A8

03-18-03

Sad state of affairs

BMwho?

Brilliant

1999 Audi A8

Deep pockets required

Audi A8

1999 Audi A8

145K and STILL going strong...

The Allroad makes sense...

The best Luxury Car money can buy!!!

2012 A8L has some LEMONS to admit and RESOLVE

The perfect fit for man and machine

Almost There

2011 AUDI A8L -  Awesome Car

Audi Company

Love my Audi

Awesome little car!

Should have kept looking

The Sonic

2012 Chevy Sonic Hatchback

supersonic

2014 LTZ 1.4l turbo hatchback

sporty fun car

OK for what it is

I still love my 2014 Sonic after 10 months

The Chevrolet Sonic is the best in class subcompact family hauler

Amazing!!

Small car with big interior

2014 sonic- a/c and heat

Loved the first one so much I bought another one!

Great first car for our college graduate.

Sophie the Sonic is a great car for my teen driver

Hits the mark

Great little car 

Solid Dependable Economy Car-Love it!

excellent vehicle

Complete transmission replacement at 14k miles

Chevy spark

no

Bad tranny !!!!

2015 Chevy Spark Review

Boogy Car

BAD TRANSMISSION OR IGNORANT SERVICE PERSONEL!!!!!

turbo ready

It's all relative

ROUGH RIDE WITH LOTS OF POWER

I love my truck

All Good

Murray's HD

Tow Rig

Love My Allison Tranny!

Awesome Truck!

Most solid vehicle I have owned

Best Truck Ever!

2500HD trailer towing capacity

2500HD LT 4WD Crew LB 6.0L

2002 CHEV 2500HD 4wd

Comfortable Pickup

Reliable Truck

Chevy the only Truck

Wife's Truck

No problems

My work truck

Best farm truck

Real truck

You Gotta get one!

2004 chevy 2500 HD

Overall Good Work Truck

King size Cadillac

Comfortable & reliable

2005 Chev Duramax

Awesome Chevy 2500HD

I want my 2001 Back

Sheldon Richards

History

Heartbeats are louder than hoofbeats

Duramax

Good Truck

Great truck

2500 HD silverado EXTENDED CAB  LT

Silverado/Girl

A member of the family

My Review

Great truck

American Work Horse

Best truck ever

Long Term Review

'05 GMC

2005 chevy 2500HD 

2nd time, shame on me

Just don't Know

Front end shaking Between 40-50mph

06 2500HD

2500 hd silverado 2dr 4wd

Silverado 2500HD

Still wondering if  '07 is better

Can't go wrong with the Duramax

OK

Like a rock

Duramax 4x4

Why did I buy

Love my truck, hate fuel mileage

Great Value

Better then my old Toyota

Best Diesel Truck

Solid truck

2006 Duramax

Great Truck

My '02 P/U

2008 chevy 2500 hd

Bad Mistake

SOLD IT AFTER A YEAR. NOT WORTH THE $$$$

Best Diesel on the Market

What a piece of junk

Proud Owner Of A 2500HD Silverado LTZ

Best GM Product to Date

Best truck I ever owned.

Top of the Hill

Chevrolet Trucks Rot Fast!!!!!! 

Worth every penny

New Chevrolets

snowplow problems

Junk bed

Great truck

2007 Silverado 2500 HD

We all make mistakes

Best vehicle in 40 years of driving!

Just purchased used and verdict still out...

2500 6,0 4x4

bad paint and clear coat

Great work truck

2500HD Crew 4wd

55,000 miles, perfect truck

My best truck ever

Best/Worse truck I've ever owned

My big beast

Great Truck

Love this truck

It really is the truck

Excellent Truck

Excellent Truck

a true work horse

this truck blows

great truck!!

Duramax is great

Poor Accessory Drive Belt System/Diesel

No:1 truck to buy

Great truck

Get a Crew Cab, It's worth it!

Great Rig

Newly Purchase Chevy Silverado 2500HD

always in the shop

New 2007 Silverado 2500 HD

general

Follow up on my review

Beauty and The Beast

Great redesign 

Great power with Duramax diesel

Great Truck

Longest I've owned a vehicle

Chevy Rules

Reliable ride

2500 HD 2004

Duramax - Allison

Finally!

Whatta Puller!

Awesome truck

Big Lemon

Love my Chevy HD. This is one bad boy. 

Great truck

Is this what Chevy has to offer?

Outstanding truck!

Awesome truck

Like a rock, no more like a boulder

Shocked with all the positive Reviews

2500HD 6.0 4x4 Reg Cab 64,000 miles

Fuel Injector problems

Beware

Chevy Duramax Diesel Rocks

Electrical problems

Good truck

big bad chevy

gas hog

Great truck

Definitely Tougher Than Rocks

Not bad at all

Very Happy with my Truck

It changed my mind

Not what I expected

Pretty happy

6.6L diesel ain't what it should be.

Silverado

Great RV hauler

Great truck

D-Max Diesel Rules!

tow monster

Knock Knock

2001 Chevy 2500HD

great truck

What Fuel Economy?

Chevy 2500HD LT  Diesel

Ole Faithful

Extra dependable engine, poor transmission

2500HD LT Crew Cab LB 8.1L

2500 HD wimpy truck

Its Been A Good Truck

H.D. 8.1 liter with 5 speed allision

GM down the tubes

I Love my Truck

2001 2500HD

Best Truck 

Great Engine - Duramax

Nightmare

Siverado 2500 HD 

Great Car

Great For College Student, Many Standard Features

Zippy The Turbo Sonic from Anacortes WA.

Really surprised at how nice it road

A Big Car in a Small Car Body

LOVE IT! Would not choose twice.

Outstanding car

Lemonade Spark sparks

I Love My Spark!!!!!!!!

Low cost and good value

Steering

Lime Green Scream Machine!

This SPARK will fire up your daily commute!

awesome car!

Best Value by Far

Love my Spark

Grape Spark Named Vylette

Has been an excellent car for my local needs

Engine failure, car broke down 4 times in month

My Cheverolet sonic

Chevrolet Sonic is a great car.

Fun car.

1.4 turbo LT auto sedan; a good buy, a few niggles

Amazing value for the price paid

Best bang for buck!

Subpar.

Limited Drive Time But Very Impressed

Better than expected.

Low cost fun!

Power, with quirks 2015 LTZ Hatch

NO REGRETS

Excellent small car for the $$

toomanyleaks

Phonics

Great Little Car

Just bought an LT manual

little problems

Fun little car but not good in snow

Love my Sonic!

Great car

Great, great choice for a small car

2013 Chevy Sonic RS review

I LOVE MY CAR!

Warranty Issues

Was excited at first, not so much now

LTZ Turbo review

Just got 2013 Sonic LTZ Hatchback Turbo Automatic

Little Tank

RS Manual - fun drive, great value! Built in U.S.A! 

Sonic Hatch LT with 1.4L

Very good small car

Pleased and anticipating good things...

Sonic LTZ Turbo 1.4 Hatchback

I own TWO 2012 Sonics... Read this Review!

brand new sonic

Critics Overlook this Valuable Car

Amazing performance for a small car!

Great Buy

1.4 turbo 6 speed manual

Things start falling appart

1 LZ turbo Love it

Great value, fun to drive

Big improvement!!

A very sparky Spark

A superb machine all round!

Chevy Spark

Good value

LOVE MY NEW SPARK!! BEST CAR I HAVE EVRY OWNED!!

Great car...just hope it stays mechanically sound

Fun to drive but some disappointments

Don't do it.

Sure beats walking!!

Awesome New Spark!

2016 Spark compared to a 2014 Spark

It didn't SPARK a fire

Best value for a single person

My First New CAR!!! OMG SO AWESOME

Star-Spangled Spark

Best Little car in the world

Sparky to the Rescue!

Would recommend this car to everyone I know!

I told the dealer no way, but then I drove it

LT Hatchback (1.8L auto): All-around Solid

2014 1.4L Turbo 1LT

2014 chevy sonic LS auto

2014 sonic Only have had the car for 8 months

I LOVE THIS CAR!!!!

An American Built Success Story

A good cheap car. Having the Hatchback is very gre

Sonic a great car for a college student

Great car for a first car, otherwise not so much

For my daughter's first car

Animalplants

It will get you from here to there.

I love my Spark!

Sparky is a great little car!

The little red  clown car!

Spark

I miss that little guy!

Chevy & Yugo mated and the result ? The Spark

Perfect for city, roadtrips, camping, family use

dangerous transmission... traded in for C-Max

Transmission & hesitation = traded for a Ford

Zippy Go Cart

Blown Motor

From Lime to Lemon

Piece of *!*! - DOn't Buy!!

Never again

Bee Mobile

Spark 2LT

Sparkling Grape Spark Stick

the car has no spare tire

Just got it three days ago and----

The best car we've ever owned!

Great Styling, but that's it.

i have waited so long for this car

This is an awesome car, But!!!!!!!

Great Car, Terrible A/C

great inexpensive small car

I love my Spark!

DO NOT BUY...GM doesn't stand behind this car

Great Little Car! 

Mission Accomplished !!!

GOOD JOB CHEVY

dont but this car, good gift for a young driver

Great ride for the money

Great car for the money!

Excellent in town car

STILL Puttin' Along

Super value for an economy car

It's a mini car with  84 HPW

great value

A Sporty Battle Tank with Convenience &Luxury feel

A Amazing Sporty Battle Tank With That Luxury Feel

Great Heavy Duty

2500 HD

Request

Nice Truck

Finally pulled the trigger!

The Beast

3500 duramax 

This truck is so [non-permissible content removed]

BEEFY DURAMAX!!!!!!!!!

Four wheeling fun

2009 2500 HD Diesel 4x4

weak little truck

BADASS CHEVY

Need a few things

Should have bought one a long time ago

My 2500HD Duramax

Love this truck

Not worth what I paid!!!

What a truck!!

Forever Truck

120k mile OILFIELD WORK TRUCK 3500 6.0 gas

some improvements over prior models

don't judge a book by it's cover

Poor replacement for a 94 Dodge

WORK Truck Is What This Truck Is

Chevy Silverado 2500!

Worst buy ever

General Motors mistake

Junker

Best Silverado yet

towing with Chevy 2500

Chevy 2015 2500HD

2015 Chevy Silverado 2500hd 6.0

2015 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 Diesel

WOW!!!

Silverado 2500HD

Best truck I've owned

Love my 2500HD

Reliable, Rugged & Refined

2500HD 2014

2014 Chevy Silverado 2500 crew cab 6.6 diesel

2500 HD Works as Advertised

My 4th HD GM Truck

Chevy 2500HD   Great Truck

Overall a good truck

Off to a good start

Power Pack V8

Been a great truck so far

H.D Diesel

2010 Silverado HD

6 liter gas

Too soon, but

Victory Red LTZ in Alaska

Silverado 2500

It's great

Don't buy this truck without a diesel

Runs Great

2010 Chevrolet Silverado 2500HD LTZ 4dr Extended Cab 4WD 

they don't build em like they use to

Awesome Truck

GIVE ME A LADDER AND RAISE THE DRIVER OPENING

Why I did not buy

Happy with it

Fuel Sipper

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

Trade S7 for A8L

More than I Expected...

A Truly Fine Automobile

what a great car

4.0L Daily Driver/Limo

A 10

Surprising Luxury and Performance

Best Luxury Car with great fuel economy

low down

Too bad they stopped making this car in us

Still in Love over 1 year in

The biggest disappointment

Auto Mags are missing the boat

2013 Audi A8 short wheel base

Ballsy

Great vehicle

excellent luxury sport car

I thought this would be a very safe car but NO!!!

2017 Audi Q3

Excellent Value, Great Car

Audi Q3 great fit for working mom

Nice car

Safety crash tests

Best visibility if you are height challenged

To Vermont and back to Texas

A-6 replacement

Great ride - lovely interior - a few glitches

One year out and still enjoying my Q3

The best car I have owned, truly

Audi Q3 rides like a NYC taxi!

dangerous on the road

World's cheapest sports car?

nice little car easy to park

Brimstone

It does what it does VERY well

2016 Q3 Prestige with Sport Package

VERY happy so far!

Audi does it again!

Don't waste your money!

Right size, right price, good dealer support

Great For High Mileage, Cool Tech, Tight Parking!

Redneck buys Spark to drive 'til daughter turns 16

happy camper

Great value for world class quality

I LOVE CLYDE

It Beats All of Them

A8 Grade A+

ZR-1 After 10 years of driving

The king of the hill

Glad I bought it

The best EV available in 2017

My third & final review

Thank God for Lemon Law

My Cruze experience

Very, very poor gas mileage.  

Worst mistake of my life

Great car, early concerns found unwarranted

Our first electric car.  Incredible

Best EV!

Bolt love

Love everything but the seats.

My Astro Replacement Van

Nice Work Van

best car I've ever owned.

Extreme Fun

best car

Sweet ride

Bought it new

VERY FUN!

Vroom Vroom, and away she goes!!

Great vehicle

Tough car for the money

Summer Cruiser

camaro rs

Love My Camaro

I'm Lucky

My Lemon

Best Body Style EVER

can you say ZZZROOMMM

Great Car 

350 F-Body Review

Best Car on Earth

Built to last*

High School Sweetheart

IROCZ Best of the Best

The world looks better from a Camaro

25th 

Best car I've owned.

Impressive

FUN DROP TOP

Not enought love

Awesome

Great Car

keep your 4th gen FBodies...

1992 Camaro RS 5.0 w/ 5 speed and T-Tops

Martha's RS

Teal Convertible

Love My Car

One of the best sport coupes ever

keep your 4th gen...

Very good

Nothing ROCS your body like an F-Body!

Bought it New in 92'

1992 CAMARO R/S CONV.

nice car

very good

Corvos Z28 rating

Life expectancy?

Awesome

American Muscle

The 1993 Camaro

Good Car

Great American F-Body

camaro keeps on going 

Great car for the money

Camaro is a  fantastic sports car

Camaro's Rule

'93 Z

My 1991 Camaro RS new toy

1991 Camaro RS 

Best 1991 RS Camaro Ever

It depends on what you're looking for

My Z28 with the 5.7 only 26k miles

great car, terrible dealership and keyless remote

GM what are you thinking???

Fantastic Vehicle with just a few minor warts

Excellent e-Ride

Bolt Out of the Blue

bring it back

1993 Camaro V6

Clean Camaro

Great Car!!!

The BEST yet

Peachy

Lovely

The Best Car I've Ever Owned!

A Miracle Car!

91 RS Fun to drive

2017 Bolt mfg date 11/2016

Fantastic car, but ...

The Affordable Car Of The Future TODAY!

Was going to pick up my new Bolt until I sat in it

Wanted a Volt, got a Bolt

lil red corvette

RED VETTE

1991 C4 Corvette ZR-1 "King of the Hill"

Nice to get back into a Vette

91 Vette - the best

Time Machine

the most fun i ever had!

Very Cool Ride!

So Far Impressed, don't listen to the nay sayers

If you need a commuter car, Run

Chevrolet got it right

If auto shopping steer clear of this expensive car

Love It

Terrified for when the warranty runs out

Don't buy it.

Death Trap

Very happy with my Cruze 2LT commuter

47.8 MPG on highway!

Not for long term use.

2011 Chevy Cruze 1lt

Amazed!

Top of the Class! 

Cruzin in Philly

Red Rocket -

After 4 years of owning one of my dream cars

You Can NOT Beat A Vette!!!!

After 18 years...Still a great Vette!!

Best performance bargain out there

Do Not Buy

Da perfect family van

great tow vehicle

Greatest family vehicle ever made!

great vehicle

1997 Express

Conversion Express Van

Chevy should be ashamed

GM needs quality control improvement

Next Time,I'll buy FORD

Outstanding multi-purpose vehicle!

King of the Hill

17 year old Corvette, still fun

2nd Hand Beauty

Red Vette Convertible

Red Rocket

Best van ever

need more reliable work van

Chevy Express 1500 Van

Just starts right up and keeps on going

good/ bad

chevt express garbage

van

Too many problems

Love in a '95 Impala SS

Best Car Ever Built

Great road car

My 5th Equinox

Never Had a Day of Trouble

Why did GM stop??

What else?

Still love it after 10 years

Excellent Ride

There is no other car I'd rather have

Big, Bold, & Beautiful

Family Car with Attitude

A man's Car

1995 IMPALA SS

My 95 Impala SS

1995 Impala

Take care

A Legend That Isn't Fully Justified

4 door vette

236K and still going

ok car

BEST 4DOOR EVER BUILT.........

Awesome car, but...

Impalla SS - very, very fast family car.

Dream Car

Stop Living In The Past

Four Door Corvette

Best SS Ever

SSled

Always liked em, now I love em 

Almost a lemon?

3500 express

What A Lemon!

The Great Z

Closet thing to a Corvette

Camaro V6

The Best

Hell of a first car

The 94 Z28

Z-28

this car is really good to drive

CAMARO!!!!!!

Best car I ever had

My Green Monster

Original owner

98SSman

Camaro is a solid ride

*Big Bang* for the Buck

99 Z28 Camaro

Fun car, but terrible reliability. 

good

1999 Z28 by adult driver

1999 Camaro

Amazing car

Brilliant Car

An Underated monster

Fun?  Of course, its a Camaro

Purely Amazing

Destorys the Mustang

Excellent vehicle

My Camaro

Bang for the Buck

Z-28 Power

Finally got it.

One really fun SS

Camaro SS Kicks Ass

Gas Milage On Actual Usage

2001 Camaro V6

Exceptional for it's purpose

Serious Paint Problems!

Awesome Ride

Paint Chips everywhere!

3.6 v 6 timing chain

A great car for the money

Very solid all around muscle car

My "01SLP SS

Traded in at 118,400mi, bought at 12mi

Get a Super Sport Camaro...KICK A$$

Style, speed, handeling and 32mpg

Disappointing

2010 Camaro

2010-2013 Best looking 5th gen camaros

Front end problems (revised July 2016)

Sweet SS

Camaro SS- Come join the Best!

Sweet Ride

Great Used car choice

Fun car to have/drive

2011 Camaro 2SS 6-speed manual

My Miracle Camaro

Modern Muscle

25,000 exotic

GREAT CAR with Flaws

Black on Black 1ss

Nice Bang for the Buck!

Very pleased

Truly in Love

2SS  Convertible

Wylie Coyote Camaro

I don't like driving anything else

A 'Race Horse' Car with Excellent Manners

Best yet!

My 2016 1/2 2SS Convertible

1000 Mile Review

2011 Camaro 2LT

Part 2 of Midlife Crisis

Brings back the 60's

Fun, Fun, Fun

Camaro with RS Trim Package

Great Sport Car, Poor reliability

Great Value

You will hate AFM on V8 with auto transmission

Zl1

I feel like Jeff Gordon!

Know the Facts

GM "What Quality Control" ?

Very Fast Car

I love my Camaro

The Most Fun You Can Have on 4 Wheels

Nephew's Camaro, Not Mine

A real head turner.

Stylish but Disappointing Quality

New Camaro

Inexpensive Hot Rod

Smiles for miles!!!

Love It- But Not a Family Vehicle.

I was so happy to finally have my Camaro then... 

Fun Ride!

3 weeks in

Wow

got Camaro 2LS this week

Good for the money

Ford man to Chevy man

Awesome Car For The Money.

Very sharp car. Compliments everywhere I go ! (:

The only car I've ever been afraid of...

Black 2014 2LS

Camaro Convertible BIG FUN!

This car is great

First choice

Love My Camero!

Best car I've ever owned!

1LE 2SS/RS Is a Civilized Beast Daily Driver

Sporty, comfortable daily driver

This is a sweet ride!

Amazing car

Everything I was looking for

40th aniversaary class 72

Never again

Dont waiste your money on a Camaro! 

My Rally yellow 2SS 6.2liter V-8,automatic

Great Commuter Car

2013 V6 Camaro Convertible 2 LT auto trans

2013 camaro convertible 2lt FUN

Camaro LT w/ RS Package

Turned in with 45K on it

Love this car!

In Love

2012 Camaro 2LT

a believer 

WOW

Watch your speedometer

Terrific!

6000 miles and 12 trips to the dealership later...

Best Car I've ever owned, bar none

Chevy got it right

Best Car I ever had!!

A lot of bang for the buck!

Corvette lite

Get the V8!

This car is fun

Camaro is fantastic ride

2012 SS/RS Camaro Convertible

An American Classic redone flawlessly! 

Awesome Vehicle

Full of surprises!

Looks great but could sound a little meaner for a muscle car

There is NOTHING like an American V8!

Fantastic

Dont underestimate the AUTO V6

Love the Camaro

Sold My C6 Corvette to buy it and I LOVE IT

Not any more.

2015 Chevy Camaro SS  Auto transmission

Awesome

Get one if you can!

Awful

2015 Camaro SS 2SS

First American car I bought  in 18 yrs

i didnt buy it for grocery shopping

One Problem

Wife loves her camaro

Perhaps Grounds for Commitment Procedings

First American car I've bought in 23 years.

2015 Camaro LS is breathtaking

2105 2SS Commemorative Edition

High geared 2LT RS

awesome vehicle

EXCELLENT CAR, GREAT PERFORMANCE

Amazing!

Awesome Car!

Simply amazing!

SS.2.RS Race Car

Best car you can buy for the $$

Very Nice Ride!!!

Best GM Sports Car in Decades.  Total Joy!

2SS/RS White-Black Leather

Camaros Rule

Love the car!

Awesome sports car...fun in Florida

Restored projct

Fun but not reliable

My baby

150 MPH for $5K

old reliable

Still my girl

My First Muscle Car

Rock solid

Best car I've ever had......

Love It But Will It Start?

love it

Very fast !!

2000 miles through,wind,rain, and snow

Nearly Perfect

Beware the Paint and Sight Lines...

2010 Camaro Review

Nice car.  Don't but from Chevy of Irvine.

2010 - 2011 Camaro - Front End Suspension Issues

Fun car to drive, but seems to have consistent issues

PAINT CHIPS!!!

Major Mechanical Issues - Thats Life!

Sweet car, bad dealership

Camaro Z28 1996

Good with the bad

Who needs a V8?

camaro v6

Can't say goodbye yet!

My last V8

GREAT CHOICE

Fun Car 

My 2000 Z28

Awesome, but not for the faint of heart

convertible in paradise

Corporate Fast-food in car form

Buyer beware

It has got to go.

beautiful car

Best for the Money

Red Beauty

Simply put Camaro Z28

Great car

Fun Car, but needs improvement

2000 Z28

2000 V6 Automatic with T-Tops

Lots of  fun; not for the inexperienced

Fun and Able

I love this car.

The more I drive this 2002 Z28 the more I love it

Great car for the hardcore speedster in you

Great Car, Repairs...ehh...

updating my post from 2011/Fast......fast

Did the editors even drive this car?

Fun to drive, reliable enough

Bullet Proof!!!

Super fun gas saver

I'd waited 30 years...

Z28

Fast, fast, fast

still faster than a 2010 mustang !

2002 Camaro Convertible

love of a legend

Z28

best bang for the buck

great car so far

Beautiful Z28

Good Car

best car ever

Power to spare with 25 MPG

Inexpensive  pony car

This car is my baby

Somehow i love it

Pure power

V6 Camaro - great vehicle!

Great Muscle Car

awsome car

Mystic Metalic

All time favorite

Z28

1995 camaro 3.4 5 speed 242k miles

Auto Transmission...

255,000 miles and still going

old man,younger days

35th anniversary edition Camaro SS

'02 Camaro SS

Best Car for the Money

2002 Camaro Z28, LS1-6 Speed

2002 SS Camaro

2002 Z28

To all of you Camaro Haters:

I Can't Believe They Stopped Production

CAMARO SS

Great Car!

My '95 Z28

Great Car!

My Camaro

Batmobile

TOMZ  Z28

1998 Chevrolet Z28 Camaro

Reliable, Fun, & Affordable Sports Car!

my first car

Fast and Furious

Chevrolet at its most excellent

This is not  your father's Oldsmobile.

My '99 Convertable Rocks!

Excellent value, excellent fun

1999 Convertible Camaro

Love my Car!

Great little car

Unbelievable

Bang for UR Buck

im in love with it

Bang for the buck

Great Car

Luv My Z

Best Bang for the Buck

Just like the first time...

very good car, excellent gas mileage,

97 30th anniversary 2d coupe.

1996 Camaro Z28/LT1/6 Speed

Last of the Beasts

Great Car

3 camaros no complaints

1997 Camaro Z28 30th anniversary (z4c)

These 5.7's are monsters.

Impressed!

Great performance per dollar

Beware the T-Tops!

zed2k

vader's 'maro

The wonders of a 1st car

Excellent Car for First Model Year

Disappointed in Camaro

Fun Car to Drive

Best Car in Town

Racing machine

I will never sell my Camaro SS

Great First Car

Nothing better

Best car I have EVER owned!

Best Bang for the Buck

LT1 Z28 a real performer

Has its flaws but amazing overall

Super-pleased!!

The ALMOST perfect Pickup.

Uncomfortable driver seat

Ocean blue review

Happy with my Silverado

Love my 2017 camaro fifty

Your never to old to own a Camaro

Drive it and you'll love it.

Pocket-friendly coupe with a bang!

New Camaro drop top back seats breakkneck situatio

knee room

2 thumbs up!!

fun

Speed Racer

ZL1

Fiftieth Anniversary 2017 Camaro RS

Vastly improved car over prior generations

Camaro V6 is Awesome!

Beyond any other in its class

Stick shift sticks it to you

First Camaro

Great value.  Pleasurable daily driver.

My new Batmobile

2ss Camaro auto

Overpriced

Please watch out Z71 Crew Cab LS 4WD

04 Colorado, A Fire waiting to happen.

Far reach for interior lock

Ouch

Engine Problems

big orange and  beautifull!

wrong foot

Great Truck

Solid performer

Great in the woods

Good Truck

Good truck, but noTacoma

Well...

2004 Colorado Z71 very disappointing 

Cheap

376,000 miles and still running perfect

You get what you pay for.

Great Truck

great truck

Could be a great truck if GM consider quality.

I love it

Very Reliable Truck - Trailers Great!!

Nice looking but too many problems

DO NOT BUY THIS TRUCK

Sucks

Don't Buy Chevy Colorado

Great Small Truck!

Colorado

A Total Lemon

Colorado in Michigan

New Truck

FIRST TIME COLORADO OWNER

Still a great truck after almost 3 years

Excellent in every way but power

Don't buy

2010 colorado Z71

Great Truck 

comfortable ride and very quiet

V8 power

My New Colorado

Great Little Truck

Don't listen to the "experts"--this is a great truck!

A power house in disguise

First Impressions - 2010 Colorado

DON'T LISTEN TO TEST REVIEWS?

V-8 power and great styling

Step up from my Sonoma

Lotsa bang for my buck so far!

Great  truck

Excellent truck!

love my truck

Great New Truck!

Needs interior improvement

Worst Vehicle I ever bought! Avoid at all costs!

truck awful

All in all I Love my Colorado

poor performance

This truck is misunderstood

Good Truck

Very pleased

Love the truck

Lots of Room

2008 Chevy Colorado Crew Cab - 130,000 mile review 

loving it!!

2008 Chevrolet Colorado LT 4dr Crew Cab 

Great truck overall

Great little truck

great so far v-8

A Long Overdue Change

Great so far

New Colorado Owner

09 Colorado

2nd Colorado in NC

Great Truck - 2WD, 4 cyl, crew cab

Chevy Colorado SS  (V8, 5.3L)

09 Colorado with 5.3 V8

What's Not To Like?

OK Truck

One powerful little truck

A great looking all around American truck....

2009 Chevy Colorado

2009 colorado 

Suggestions

NIce Izuzu

Love my Colorado

DON'T RELY ON EXPERT REVIEWS

Expect about 10 years life

Nice Truck !!!

Very Dissapointed 

Amazing Truck

Its a 4 wheel drive pickup

Epic Fail

Worst truck purchase ever!

2005 Red Chevy Colorado Z-71

Best Truck for the money

colorado "NORMAL"

'07 Colorado LT 4dr Crew Cab 3.7L 2wd Red

Far from best

Taken a beating. , , 

great truck

Bestest vehicle I ever owned

Good truck

Take this truck and ...

my cool colorado

Love my Black Xtreme

Updated review

Good Truck

Good Truck

WOW!  This truck is nice!

Decent Truck

Great Truck

Alaska test

Colorado 2.9L

My Colorado

Is a four speed automatic tranny ext cab lt 2007

Worst truck on the market!

Fun to Drive!

Bad truck

Good looking truck, but lots of problems

Emmission problemm not reported by cheve to customer

Awesome truck

Check the details before you buy

Great Value

Quality Truck

Rather fine truck

satisfied but  could be improved

4 years and going strong

Good Little Truck

WE LIKE IT

2006 4x4 Colorodo Crew Cab

Very Surprised.. And Happy with my Colorado

Surprised

06 Chevy Colorado LT 4WD 3.5L Inline 5

Reliable

'06 Z85 Crew

Needs Fine Tuning

New 2.9 engine, new problems.

'07 Chevy Colorado, ext. cab, automatic NOT standard

07 Colorado Z71 (Automatic)- The Beast

2007 Colorado Is Great

Really? No Back Up Camera??

Another hit for Chevy

Overall a great car

My son loves his 2016 Malibu Limited.

2016 Malibu

2016 Malibu Limited

Chevy

2010 to 2012 2WD Colorado Crew Cab LT2 Z71

28k miles after 6kmiles hard road trip

Excellent value for the Money - A must look at Truck

cheapest decent truck 

Great Truck

2012 Colorado Crew LT3 V-8

It's a Truck, not a car

Great Truck

Best compact truck

Ok

The Best Mid Size Truck On The Market

4 Months and  12,000 Miles later!

Great truck but listing complaints here

Colorado: You ROCK!

Chevy Fan no more

What a piece of crap!!

Expensive but Worth it and has aged well

Chevy scores a hit with the Colorado

A BIG truck in a SMALL body....... win win

Good truck, Fun to drive, Terrible GPS

My car

Made in America!

Great

Fun to Drive

New toy

2nd best car I have ever owned

Affordable Icon

Do not buy a chevy

bought my dream car

My First Vette!

Great Fun Car to drive

American Muscle Car

Back to a Bowtie?

I love my Collector Edition

Happy Owner

Hot 96 LT4

polo lt4

Great LT4

Great Car

Love this car!

Best sportscar - dollar for dollar

Great cruiser

Best Roadster in America

zoom zoom this

AWESOME, WHY BUY ANYTHING ELSE

1997 Corvette

1997 c5 corvette

Cool, fun to drive

Still the best performance bargain

Original Owner 2006 A4- 118K miles and still going

Do Not Trust

Never again

62,000 Miles and the engine is done.

My Treasure,2000 CorvetteConvertable!

Best Sports car ever for the money

What a great car

Great Daily Driver

At least once in your life treat yourself

CORVETTE FUN

Corvettes are great

2000 Corvette-3 yrs. later

Been a great chevy so far

Third Vette... and counting...

Should be faster

Cavortin'

Consider one for your next car!

Hard to Beat!

Daily sports driver

Excellent Car

Mid Life Toy

My Red Rocket Toy

What a gift!

If you always wanted one...this is it!

Fun

Red Rocket

2002 Red Z06 bought new in 2/02

I love by Electron Blue, white top Vette

02 Triple Black

It's a trade-off

Great Bang 4 the Buck

problems wth my corvette

MY Z06

Best car I have ever owned.

My first Vette

Room For Improvement

Supercar for Camry price

Corvette owner RPC

Third Best By Far

Dream Come True

The editors are nuts!

Buy one and feel younger

Fun on a medium budget

1st Vette and not the last

Nicest looking sports car on the road

What else compares?

Windy Wendy is a blast!

Silver 2001

mine is a 6 speed manual

Keeping her till something out-does her

Yellow LT-4 Ragtop

She is hot and fun

Not So Spectacular

Shimmy

I love this car!

Wonderful Car

2nd only to my '67

2001 Chevrolet Corvette Z06

2001 Z06

corvette "absolutely the best bang for the buck"

Nice car

Red, hot, and sassy

MOST FUN YOU CAN HAVE ALONE

2nd Vette Owned and Loving it More!

Fun car to drive, if the bugs die.

Fast, fun, and great looking

Great over 30 weekend car

Lifetime Corvette Owner, C5 is BEST Yet

1997 c5 corvette

97  C5 Great Car excellent value

'97 Corvette

Good for the money

FUN CAR TO DRIVE

'97 Vette

Awesome

Pleased Corvette Owner

Hooked for life

Best Corvette I have yet to own 

Built by proud designers

C5 ragtop... a dream turned reality

6 speed manual convertible

6th Corvette -1999 C-5 Coupe

Cherry runs like new. easily a steal

Amazing Performance for the Money

Love This Vette

Couldn't get any better

Excellent car

1998 Vette

1998 convert auto Borla triple-black

Highly Recommended

1999 Corvette

Best Vehicle I Have Ever Owned

1999 6 speed hardtop 

Corvette - No Thanks

Dream Come True

Fun

1998 Corvette Coupe

Going Strong And Loveing  It

LP

C5 problem

Long term owner

So Far, So Good

Attention Getter

IF ONLY THEY BUILT AN INTERIOR

Loving Life After Divorce

Smokem '98

C5 vette

Outstanding Performance Automobile!

Owned 30 vettes

Eye catching machine

c4 Love!!!

what a fun car to drive

Cheap smiles - 

Wow

Smile per mile

'96 Collectors Ed.

Fun, Fun, Fun

Love C4s

1996 Collector Corvette

Love this car

What's not to like

1994 LT-1 Coupe

feelin it in my vette

The Fastest Mistake

Great Bang for the $$

93TOENV

Lots of FUN!

Great Car

93 vette

Our Ruby Red Corvette

Great car

I finally got one

Idiotic Placement of Water Pump/Controls

Great Car!

Last of its Kind

Classic Convertible, Great Car

1993 Vette owned 10 years

14 years and counting

Remarkable car

!995 Corvette

Gotta love the vette

A blast to drive

Perfect

'95 Artic White LT1 A4

A machine

It took 20years, but I finally got mine

Chevy for show - Ford for go

Welcome to the World of Corvette Owners

Power House

seat of the pants

1995 Corvette- Wow!

Great ride

Love it more every time I drive it

To Rosie

1995 Corvette

1995 Chevrolet Corvette LT1 Auto 

Fell in love with it again

Fun Car

Where do I start??

I love it anyway!

Real American Muscle

a real car buff

Real Sportscar

UNEEK1992 CORVETTE

Love it!

Possible Viper Killer

A real beauty and head turner

25 Years young -

Great mid-size

Very Disappointed

I LOVE THIS TRUCK

Waited a long time - Awesome Truck!!!

New Colorado X-Cab LT 4X4 w/I4

Quality Costs less

Dream car!

Excellent Ride/Sucky Radio

WOW ! Great quality almost 12 years !!!

1992 Convertible

First New Chevy

Use caution when buying a 2015 Chevy COlorado Z71

Ok.... But just ok not worth the 36 K I paid!

One of the WORST vehicles I ever owned

Great Truck - better than I expected

Squeaky under carriage

GEEK /WOMAN TRUCK

Catchy Title

Badass truck

Great so far -- But it's brand new

Driven like never before.

Best truck I have ever owned!!!

shudder shift six

Nice truck for older couple (70's)

Top rated,but not top quality

Nice mid-size Sport Truck

Great truck for an old guy.

Who stole my V6?

My Orange 2016 Colorado Z71 4WD

In Love With My Rain Forest Green Chevy Colorado

2016 Colorado left me stranded

DURAMAX-

2016 Z71 V6

Nice truck but seat back moves

The Age of Truck-Updated

Sharp looks, comfortable, but slow to accelerate

New Colorado is Amazing

Seems to be a great truck. 2.8 Duramax, Crew, LT

2016 Z71 Colorado V6

2.8L Duramax 4X4, Very Impressive, so far so good

One of the best mid-sized trucks, but not perfect

Converted from Tacoma and have never looked back

Love my 2016 Colorado LT

Great Truck, Forget the Touch Screen

Transmission Problems

The Best

Exceeded all expectations

lov n it

Perfect

Disgusted with GM, Warranty is worthless

Yellow Corvette Convertible Toy

1ST Z06, 3RD VETTE

bitter sweet

Never again

Corvette Ready

May 2014 Road & Track 2004 best year C-5 ZO6!!!

good

Great car, fun to drive

Great Car!

My Second Corvette

07 Convertible

Best Bang for Buck

You'd Be Surprised!

2007 Corvette Z06 Road and Track car

Stripper Vette

Why didn't I buy one sooner???

Yeah!

Super car at a super price

Speed limits are only numbers.

Not Your fat, bald man driver

Reliability 07 Vette

So Far So Good

A decent car

Z06 whats not to like

Awesome Experience

America has arrived

Z06 earned my respect

Bad to the bone

Vette Conv.

Wow - Outstanding

Traded  UP

King of the Hill

Awesome!

68 Vett When we got married 07 Vett 40 yrs later

Amazing bang for the buck, especially used

base model LS3 coupe

An American Icon

2013 Corvett

sweet vette ride

Great vehicle

Fun Vehicel to Drive

Works for me

Not the quailty I would have hoped for

Love My Nox

To Z or not to Z that is the question?

I was vetted

Stingray

C7 is the best ever.

Car of our dreams

My Equinox

No help from GM

Worst car I have owned!

nox

Got a Lemon

Really disappointed with this car.....

Great dependable car

Blown head gasket

Nice, but a lot of problems....

Good for 8 years

Present Imperfect

Incredible!!!!!

Could be better

How do you spell Fun? CORVETTE

2015 Crystal Red Stingray

Very good

No major issues

never again

Big Annoying mistake

Very surprised

need help, ac problems

NIGHTMARE!!

If You Like Spending Money This Is The SUV For You!!!!

UPDATE On My Previous Post. MarThe_RN23 Now At 140K And Loving It!!!! Worth The Minor Issues If You Have Reasonable Mechanic Trust Worthy Mechanic! 

Unfortunate vehicle by General Motors

Nothing but strange problems

Good car

Don't buy this car!!!

Expect the expected

Buyer Beware!!!!!

Buyer beware... 

My equinox

money pit junk

I want to get rid of this!

disappointed

Grand Sport corvette

big yellow lemon

C6 Z06 Triple Black

Life and times in a Corvette 427

MY AMERICAN FERRARI....

Sticker

Fuel Gauge and Instrument Panel Lights

Has to go

Can't wait to get rid of it

Overall, a good car

Starting problems 

Please read! Do not buy

Not worth the money

Brake Issues

Okay SUV

Awesome Truck!

Wonderful vehicle

Transportation

Don't Do It!

Great looking & youthful

So Disappointed 

Good choice for the price

Happy and disappointed at same time

Key in will not start

Never buy a Chevy again!

Serious issues with electrical.....

Weatherstripping Failure

I'm very optimistic though

Looked Great but total PIA

Terrible vehicle GM at it's worst!

little family hauler

2009 Sport Equinox

Dumped the Pickup for the SUV

Great Vehicle

College Student's first self bought car

A Very Good Purchase

2009 Equinox

26000 kilometers in and the love is gone

Research before you buy one!

Trasmission and electronics

Never again

My Dealer Loves to Repair it - sigh

Too many problems for the price!

It's been a great vehicle

transmission and chiller blew in 3 months

Bought a used 2009 Equinox LS

couldnt pass up the discounts, not bad

Luv my" Nox"

Excellent Car

Unreliability

Bumping and jerking

Biggest mistake I ever Made!!!

Awesome ride.. Lots of compliments..

2008 chevy equinox

Timed out in LG

Great Car

Great vehicle!

Constant problem

Throttle Body Repair - less than 50,000 miles

Not happy with GM

Money Pit!!!!

Transmission problem

Loving it

Great so far!

Not so much

What is not to love about the Corvette

2008 Corvette Convertible

A Dream Come True

Perfect choice to replace old Vette

True sports coupe (Z06)

Unbelievable

Race With The Wind

Fun and noticeable car

Loving my LT 3 Centennial Edition

My 2nd Vette

Best sports car value!

BEST VETTE YET

Corvette C5 to C6 Z06

Simply awesome

Z06 compresses time and space.

A Dream Come Thrue

Best car I've owned in 50 years

Vette Owner w/Real Objective Review

Always an eye-catcher

Well Pleased

2008 Z06 is a winner!

Great Buy - 2011 GS

Large, powerful, heavy GT car

My first Vette, bought one year older than average!

Once in a Lifetime Ride!

2011 Coupe Auto Trans

Not what I thought

Great sports car...

Awesome ride

My New 2010 Corvette Coupe

Can't Believe GM made this Car

Great Car

What more could you ask?

Huge Fun

Enjoying my lifetime dream car!

$50k piece of junk

Great overall car with some flaws

Do I have a lemon

A lot of bang for your buck

First Vette

Love it

1LT coupe

A true GT Sports Car!

2010 GS

2017 Corvette Gand Sport

The Best of The Best

Pretty cool! Fat fenders & WIDE tires!

2010 Corvette Grand Sport Convertable

Fun at any speed

The real deal

Totally Impressed

Gray Shark on the Road

racer x

Z51 for life

The Warble

1 month review

Grand Sport

An eight-month love affair...

C-Vette

Lightning FAST !!

Overall, The very best bang for the buck anywhere.

Versatile, exciting car

Spectacular! Love the C7

Greatest Corvette made since my 1967 427 L-88

Selectable Economy for Your Power

best yet

A Jet

Z51

A terrific car, but not perfect: UPDATE 3

Breathtaking

Manual or Auto?

Great car

Gets Better Every Day!

It's another "WARBLER"

A super car!

More than you can imagine

No Door Handles

Love it, but have some faults

Do it now.....

Disappointed in C6

The best

2005 Chevrolet Corvette

Awesome

2005 C6

OLDER IS BETTER

Go ahead, buy one!

Great car with annoying problems

lots of problems,many repairs required

It's OK

Need to look back

2005 Corvette

Dream Car

Corvette

Performance deal of a lifetime

Smuuuuve

Big improvement on C5

This car rocks in every way

Fun car

What A Car!

My First Vette

The Last Vette I will ever own

True American Sports Car

Riding on a cloud

Best Bang for the Buck

Wow! This must be what love feels like.

"Z06"...whats left to say

2006 Z51 Corvette Coupe

it could have been great

Power for the Daily Drive

C6 Corvette Coupe

2009 Cyber Grey Couple - 1LT, Z51, NPP

LUV My Vette

2009 Cyber Grey Coupe

A Dream come true

What a car!

Vetteman

Amazing Car

Best they've ever been

WOW! Worth the Wait

'08-Z06 to '09 Callaway

2009 Corvette ZR1

FUN CAR -- POOR RELIABILITY

Gorgeous Ride!

Low mileage, full leather

Best Car I've Owned

My first Vette, worth the wait

Scary fast, manual Z-51, NPP 

'09  Cyber Gray  Z-51 6speed

Best of the four I have owned, by a mile!

Awesomeness

Great Buy! New or Used!

Only 1 Regret...

The Affordable Supercar

Dream Drive

My honest opinion of this car

Great American Car

2004 Corvette Convertible

Traded Down to a 2004 for Comfort

Gota love it

Commemorative Edition Z06

Private Rocketship

Are you kidding me???

Nice Ride

my first 'vette

The best sports car ever!

2003 Corvette Convertible

Buying a used Corvette

A Car With a Soul

2003 Z06

50th Anniversary Vet

save your cash 

50th Anniversary Corvette

For the money can't do any better!

FIRST C-5

Pick-up truck nut case

The Best of the worst

Edmunds is out of their minds.

Don't overlook this car

Transmission gone @ 448 miles

2016 Chevy Equinox LT

Equinox V6 LT2

6 cylinder AWD 2LT

Good and bad points

Loving my Equinox!!

Good car to own.

Luv my Equinox

Little red machine

Wheel cover warning!!!

Dual control ac preserves marriage

What?? No CD player in 2016 Equinox

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

WORST VEHICLE EVER

Air cond vents & actual gas mileage

Great but Disappointing MPG

Run as far away from these vehicles as you can!

Great ride

Michigan to Florida under $85 in Gas !!!!

LTZ is great but not a buick!, but then, neither w

LTZ AWD 3.6L V6 from Canada

Not for me

Wish I had know more details about vehicle

2014 Equinox ls

2014 Equinox

2014 Equinox, my worst nightmare becomes a reality

More than I expected

GMC 3500 8.1 Liter Ext. Wheelbase

G1500 Regency Conversion

Keep the kids away!

Sturdy hauler - my "covered pickup"

Excellent alternative to big SUVs

2002 Express LT  Lots of room

horrible gas mileage

Equinox LS 2015

10,000 miles in 6 months

ENGINE PROBLEM

No Complaints on MPG

The best travel vehicle

Big, but great gas mileage

A thumbs up for this one!

Great van, handles great. 

What got me into loving American Cars

Comsumer Beware

The Oversized Family Vehicle

Conversion Van

Mike's Review

2nd Express Conversion

Ready for the test!

Still kicking at 190,000

Coming from Fords, very dissapointed.

Best Van Ever built

Love it

Better then SUV for a trailer and kids 

Our Adventure Mobile

Nice Family Van

Family Van and Cargo hauler

Our "Goin' Up North" Vehicle

2001 mercer review

My Chevy Passenger Van

Best of the full size vans

Poorly engineered  

Love it, but try to find a parking spot.

2006 Chevy Express

You'll Love The Extra Room

Van for All uses

2005 AWD 1500 Express Cargo

Lots of kids

2003 Chevy Express 1500 AWD w/ 4th Door

My Express

This car has major problems from day one

My AWD Van

Buy the Extended Warranty

Nice mid-size SUV; a few disappointing surprises

A mediocre SUV

Don't Believe The Mileage Claims

Give other comparables some serious consideration!

So underpowered

BANG FOR THE BUCK!

2003 express van comments

owner of a vending business

Van for All uses

Chevrolet Express Van ("Summer Van")

Better than SUV for larger Families

Love my van!

02 chev 15 pass van

Excellent product

Better in the long run

Fix my seats & it's ready for next owner

Ship of the highway

It's paid for so don't laugh.

You Should have a V6 AWD

electrical issues

2015 Equinox 2LT 4cyl

Great for Family and travel

LT2 3.2l V6 AWD

American-made, AWD and comfort

Cruzin the inland NW in my Equinox

Just switched back to chevy

Replaced a mini van with Equinox

Love it!

Big Family Hauler

High mileage problems !

Good for everything

decisions... decisions...

Good Value

Has been an excellent, reliable car

Pretty good crossover

Comfort in driving, sluggish engine

2.5 years old and feels like new.

Not the quality I was expecting

Still like it

Gravel and Head Spinning

Defog & Air SUCKS

Great Van... a True Life-Saver!!

No Regrets

Chevy Express

Excellent work truck

2000 express

Still everything I was expecting

Best out of 50 cars

A HUGE improvement over our 2005 Equinox.

Just bought it used

I LOVE my Equinox!

Workhorse

Still going strong

Great Improvement

2000 chevy express van LS 3500

Den On Wheels

An excellent vehicle

2013 Chevy Equinox

Pleasantly suprised

A couple things need improvement

Good overall value

Among the best

I Love My 2013 Equinox!!

What Problems?

Brand New 2013

An outstanding vehicle

Been a Good Car so far but not Perfect

My first new vehicle

So far so good!

Very nicely done!

1ST YEAR REVIEW

Car Blows Up After Slow Speed Front End Collision

2013 Chevrolet Equinox

2013 Eqinox is in the shop for repair every few months

Of Some Concern

Happy after almost 3 years and 20k miles

Why I would purchase Equinox... 

Things To Consider

Loud engine knock at cold start up.

Seeking new car ... definitely not another Equinox

Pile of garbage.

Best decision I could have made

Love it!

New Equinox LS is a real value

Perfect

LOVE, LOVE, LOVE

This SUV is full of trouble, potentially deadly

Why Chevy Still Doesn't Get It

Worst Car I've Ever Owned. No GM Support

Where do I go from here?

Overall view.

Body Module Failure a Deal Breaker

Relatively Happy

Better equipped and built than the competition

11,000 and going strong

EPA mileage a joke -- but I love the SUV

An Engineers Review of the 2012 Equinox

Jumpy Shifting and Stalling Out

Transmission Trouble & Haven't Made 1st Payment

Equinox LTZ

Been great so far

ECO Mode is a bit squirrelly

First 1000 miles

Excellent Vehicle

Great vehicle all around, but...

MPG

A piece!

Night mare

Chevrolet Equinox: Poor Reliability

My wife is fuming

High Expectations... to Ho Hum

Not my old time Chevy

Goodbye Chevy

2010 AWD L4 LTZ Issues

unsafe problems reduced engine power/ service stabilitrac

THOROUGHLY DISGUSTED!!

Never buy another Chevy after the Equinox experien

Great for tall drivers

Buyers Beware

blinding reflections

Never, Ever, Again

From Jeep back to GM

Couldn't be happier with this vehicle.

Two weeks with the 2016 Chevy Equinox AWD 6 Cyl.

2nd Equinox and Happy X2

So far, so good

Costs are skyrocketing! Not reliable.

Eeks and knocks (it's real name)

junk

Sad owner of an Equinox 2010

Improve a few things and this will be a great vehicle

Chevy Equinox

Equinox

Satisfied Owner

Just Meh

EQUINOX 6 Cylinder Is The ONLY Way To Go!!

After a month's ownership

Can't beat the leasing price

Long time coming

2017 Equinox is just what we wanted.

Must have!

Dashboard screen on 2017 Equinox

shiny look but not too impressive.

So Far So Good

Love my equinox

Very superior to all others tested

Diesel issues not covered under warranty

A great compact car! (Update)

A Cruize without cruise? How can that be?

White lighting

Great Car

Not very impressed. Preferred the VW Jetta

Ok car wish it had cruise control.

Stupid Design Decisions

My new chevy Cruze

Love my Cruze

Love this car

Stuck With A Lemon

A full step backwards from last generation

Good car for tall guy

My Favorite Car so Far !!!

Reliable Eco Car

Pep and Fuel Economy

Chevys best kept secret

really nice well built car with alot of optiond

Owned Three

Is the Chevy Cruze the new Tom Cruise?

1st GM product in 6 years

Tire  pressure sensor meltdown

Renting a Cruze for 2 weeks.

By far the BEST car I have ever owned

70 year old great granny with a 2017 Premier Rally

Worst purchase I've ever made

Worse Idea Ever

-90 Day Repair

Pleasantly surprised!

Great Little Car

Transmission issue & More

Update on my 2012 2LT RS Manual

Honest and to the Point

A Compact Car That Wants To Be More

First time chevy owner

2013 Chev Eco Cruze Manual 2000mi review 

One thing after Another

Not what I expected after all the good reviews, its a LEMON

Worth Every Penny

BEAUTIFUL car, GOOD ride

WARNING TO POTENTIAL BUYERS

2013 chevy cruze transmission problems

This guy loves his Cruze!

Love the Cruze

2017 LT hatchback

Just bought a new 2017 Chevy Cruze LT

Great change from a foreign to a domestic

Very nice compact car but

Smart Hatch

2002 Chevy Express Cargo Van won't run

Did I get a loser?

Perfect

Love the car and the MPG

LEMON

TOO MAY ISSUES

I owned the vechile for  2 years....never again!

Review at 90K Miles

Faithful Friend

Flower Van used on funerals

last guy got a lemon

Did I get a loser?

last guy got a lemon

Haul Away!

WOW...NICE ROAD MACHINE

MY CHEVY VAN

Chevy Express Van

Repeat owner

Work Horse

Chevy Express Cargo Van

GREAT FOR BUSSINESS

3 Recalls and counting

Mileage, Mileage, Mileage

solid car

CRUZE this A+ Review

One Happy Owner!!!

Great car - chevy 2500 -60000 miles

good working friend

MPG Sweet Spot!

Starcraft LT Conversion (5.3L V8)

GMC Savana Cargo Van

Express Cargo

Chevy makes a good work van

It exceeds the expectations I had.

Great everyday driver, with style!

Great Compact Car!

Hands down-- Great car

Wonderful Car... with a few catches

2015 Cruze Clean Turbo Diesel

Great decision

Some days it just wont start

Prepare To Be Underwhelmed

Beats the VW Jetta diesel with ease.

Impressive MPG

A Car You Can Trust!

Great family car

Nice solid car.

2014 Chevy Cruze 2LT RS

42 mpg average for 11,000 miles

Learn how to drive a manual

Waited years for this car to come out!!

15,000 mile review

What a Car!!!!

Most powerful 15 psgr behemoth

Underpower

Cruzin' along

2016 chevy cruze

Wife's car

Great Car for the Money!!

Cruzen

I love the car

Soooo Close

Glad I didn't purchase!

Unstable Steering

Crappy rental car

Pretty that's all

will not purchase due stop/start

Stable, quiet cruiser

great little car

cruze fan

t h i s  c a r  i s  b a d

So close and yet so far

Auto Stop not impressed

Proud to drive around in this little gem!

Solid compact car

50 mpg on the road!!

I never set out to buy a Chevrolet Cruze

Uber driver gives thumbs up

Best Car I have ever Owned

There's Hope For GM

Just Cruzin'

Glad I bought the Cruze instead of a Honda Civic

Great car with great features

Great car with great MPG but if you have manual watch out for cultch problems

I drive it like I stole it!

Cruze Eco is a Great Buy for College Grad

Gas Mileage Superhero

Should have bought the Corolla

Best higher mileage car I have ever owned.

Exactly what I want, Cruze RS

Known transmission issues!

I love this car!

Great small car

Capable of amazing gas mileage

CJ Cruze Eco Automatic

2014 Chevrolet 15 Passenger Express Van

A true workhorse.

'09 Chevy Express Passenger Van

A very comfortable ride

POOR MPG

Frank

sweet car

Pauls 96 SS

A fun car

My '96 SS

Still purring

13 years and going

Impala SS

Great ride

the only imaculate car alive!!!!

IMPALA SS

Formidable challange

Headbanging Impala

Best car in the nation besides Camry!

performance vehicle ...late 90

GM got it right, then quit!

The Legend is still alive and thriving

My Dream Come True...96 SS 

Stealth 4-door Vette

Superb

huge, fast car

Great Car

2000 Impala Sedan-Faulty Components

Awesome Impala LS

Very good for the money

Going to Tokyo

Reliable solid automoble

lots of problems

Problems with knocking when turning left

Great Car

Sheet metal on van

Long Lasting

Solid car

2002, 2004 Impala LS's, husband, wife cars

Never again

Mom told me so

Natural Gas Version has very short range

UNSTOPABLE!!!!

Great Car:  The New Chevy Impala

Bulletproof Car with 3.8L

Good, reliable sedan

Only 17

Don't Want to Give Up My Impala

Looks are deceiving

Awsome

Overall good car with some issues

Not overly satisfied!

I'll never buy a GM vehicle ever again

Excellent

twice satisfied

It's a Chevy

EXCELLENT DRIVING MACHINE

1st 165k were troublefree

2001 impala 3,4 v6

Wonder Car.  I wonder what will break next

Great Performance

Thorn in my flesh!

Money PIT!!!!!!

RE- THINK if your going to spend more

200000 miles plus easy with this vehicle

Faithful Horse

Constant lack of starting

Their paint peels off!

My new company  truck

How many Van's can one man claim ?

Just What I Needed

2008 Express AWD Experiences

6 speed is the way to go

LOVE LOVE LOVE MY CRUZE

Great Car!!

hit the ground running

Great price. Great Car.

Love my Cruze!

My LTZ

Great commuter car

2016  Checrolet Cruze

WOW

Mike's cargo van

Decent Work Van

Just what the business need

Never

A good van.

Good work van, but not much else

Express Van Workhorses

Chevy vans-why they stink

2005 Chevy Express 3500 Ext  6.0L

Good New Van

New 2006 Express

Great work van

Great Value

Very Generic Feeling

It works for me & my jobs

All around an OK car

GO FOR IT!

The LS is a quality buy you won't regret

Don't Waste Your Money

Impala

Impala LS

jag reviewer

Solid Car

Very Disapointed

Lower Intake Manifold Gasket

Love my Impala!

Buyer Beware

03 Impala Ls

Six Months In - Glad to have it!

This Car is Junk

2003 Chevy Impala

All things that gone wrong

Another piece of GM junk

GREAT CAR

The most lackluster car ever made

The best car I've ever owned

Worst car I've ever bought

First month in low-mileage pre-owned 2016 Impala

Bad car

Best car I've ever owned!!

First Time Chevy Owner

Great looking car

Run, run, run....away from buying this car.

Fast speed, faster break downs

Stay away from this vehicle

2008 Impala LS

Smooth Ride

Door Handle Problem

Very upset Impala Owner

Road Noise Anyone???

Owner since 2011 200k miles so far

Better than the "pros" reviews let on

First time owner of Impala

Owned my 2009 since I purchased it brand new

Problems with this Chevy

LTZ! Reliable AND fun to drive!

My own Impala, not for everyone

We're  going 300,000 miles

100% Pure Love!

Don't learn the hard way

No issuse until now

Love My Impala !!!!!!

Very Poor Visibility

not a car for weather if you want to drive

Interior needs re-engineering

chevy impala 2011

Garbage

not sure about this, looking at dumping car

Seemingly Common Fuel Pump Issue

Modern Spacious Car for 6'3" or taller driver

Think twice or roll the dice

Happy

I do not like this car

Greaterest car

Best used car on the market

Poor performace

Older modeld

easy oil change for shade tree mechanics

FAR BEYOND EXPECTATIONS

Best full size sedan

Disappointed

Heavy Chevy

Bang for Buck

Great daily driver

Great Car

Unable to Repair Left Front Drive issue

Soild car

It's all about Value

Quite Possibly the best car of 2013

2013 Impala LT

2013 Impala LTZ made a frugal man happy.

A great car

Good Cruiser But Disappointed With Chevy's Gearing

Love my Impala!

Great Car!

bad trans

my baby :)

Same great car 3 years in a row

Big, comfortable sedan

returned to chevy after 43 years and 5 bmw's .

Love It So Far

best car on the maket

2012 Chevy Impala LT

Loved my Impala

Another lackluckster car from GM

The Impala comes alive

2012 Impala 6 speed transmission

2nd Impala - Best Car I Have Ever Owned

Great Car!

Great car for Much Less than Competitors

Could not ask for better value

Excellent LTZ

Great car however

A Perfect Car

Great Value for the $

Great car for the money

Blind Spots

Way better than a Honda Accord for half the price

serious safety issue

good sedan

Interesting

Long term rental

Great First Car

Fold down rear seats

Just as good as the imports

Bullet Proof 

Our Impala gets 28 mpg

Finally, the perfect car for me!

Impala LTZ:  Big, Fast, and It Feels Special

Throw away all your pre 2015 Impala knowledge

Excellent Auto

Possible defect in navigation screen design may make visibilty unreliable.

No Trunk  Access If Battery Dies

2006 SS Impala

Loovvee this car!

Disappointing

SS super sport Chevy

2006 Impala LS 236,000 miles

06 Chevy Impala LTZ Rocks

GM has finally done it!

140k miles and it never let me down.

The worse decision I ever made.

Drive to Reno

2014 Impala LTZ rocks

Greart car

Snow

Full of Defects

Love My Car

Great Car

2006 New Impala

Great car

Get what you paid for...

2014 Impala LS (2.5 liter 4 cyclinder, 6 speed auto)

Texas Chevrolet

Love my car impala 2014 ltz/ 2lz

Impressive Car

Many problems with infotainment ctr/electronics

really nice car

WOW!

Love This Car!

Great car

Brake Noise

Brake noise

Impressive Impala

mirror trim keeps falling off

More Than I Expected....

After 30 months in the Impala

Utilitarian, highly recommended

2011 Impala LTZ

Great Value, Perfect American Family Car

Great car!

Dang You, Detroit!

Bad Experience

Disappointed with Impala AGAIN . . . 

Headrests overshadow all of the good

alternator

Shame on you Chevy **SHAME SHAME SHAME

Monthly problems!

Value, Value, Value; You get More Than you Pay For

Impala LT

2011 Impala LT

hard to see to drive

It delivers

Great Daily Driver!

great value

At 78,000 miles, still drives like new

No complaints, unexpected value

Transmission

Will never own another chevorlet car....

V-6 for the price of a 4.

best vehicle ive ever owned

My new ride

Buy American

2007 Impala LT

My midlife crisis car that became my nightmare

Love my 2007 impala

Powerful

Great Car

excellent car for the price

Easy to Drive Car

LT replaces Beast

early transmission problems pleague both our chevys

My Third LTZ Since '06

2010 Impala

not liking this car

Overall Splendid Car - 2 design flaws

Fleet Car

This Car Rocks

Solid, sometimes overlooked choice

The car dreams are made of 

Awesome car!

Wow.

Best car I've ever owned

So many problems

Buy American now and be impressed

Transmission issues on 2007 Impala SS

Sweet Ride!

Run don't walk

Used buy value

Head gasket problem?

NASCAR IMPALA

Bought with 11k Now close to 100k no issues

A FWD SS but still an SS!

2007 Impala LT

Invisible, no fuss, unbelievable

Back in America

Really put out with Chevy and my Impala

Bad rear door locks

Regret buying this car!!!

No more

I was involved in a accident that was not my fault, 25 days after I purchased my vehicle

Love this car

Almost drives itself.

Best vehicle I found for the $$$

First Car last car

Buy the LTZ

Impala LTZ2

Love it/Hate it

Great Car. So far so good

Impala - American Pride At Its Finest.

Extended Warranty Needed

great all-around sedan

2016 Pre-owned Impala Review

Drive on city roads and highway before you buy

Over Priced for cheap electronics and a plastic

Stupid ! Move

Uncomfortable

Best Car at the Best Price

3 X Lucky

Impala with a luxury feel

Love my Impala but nervous about it's reliability!

Dont drive this car in the snow!

stupendous

It's hard to beat an old Chevy

Great Car

I absolutely love this car to death.

Most reliable car i've ever seen

2004 Impala

Just a nightmare

Love love love my Chevy Impala

Great family sedan

absolutely perfect

2005 Impala SS

very satisfied

Dependable for seven years

love my 05

2005 Impala 

I'm on my 2nd one, wonderful cars.

Imma Chevy Girl

Ridiculously Reliable

Fabulous Car

A few problems but awesome to drive

2005 Chevy Impala SS

Excellent car!!!

I love this car

Great Car!

Hooked on Impala

Great car - value and comfort

Bought used

Love my 2005 impala

Love This Car

Great Car

Marvel of  a Machine

Comfortable, durable, safe and fun

GM has knowledge of existing problems

11 years and still going

Car is Junk

Over all It's been a good car.

One of the best that I have owned

Overall a Good Buy

Now 11 years later, and still running strong!

2003 chevy impala LS 3.8

Best Car I've owned so far

GM needs to do better

Great car

2004 IMPALA SS "INDY" - ALMOST PERFECT

Good Car

Great Car

Gasket Trouble

Solid Vehicle

2nd one! =)

A money pit.

Awful

Cheverolet Impala 3.8L Police Package

like a dream... with a nightmare

Overall...A Great Car

Test Drove them all , Impala won!

Stranded on I-20E in Carroll County, Ga ...

'99 Chevy Malibu - 2 kids & still going.

No pizzaz

Ho-Hum

WORST CAR EVER!

Malibu: practically trouble free car

I will miss it!

1997 malibu

Don't Buy First Year Models or Chevys

A LEMON!!

Malibu

"love and hate"

My first car

The worst car I ever purchased....

05/25/03

UNSAFE!!!!

They should pay....

Worth it

Unfortunate Misconception

I Will Miss This Car

03 malibu

Great Car! What a Deal!

Fun to drive!

Excellent car, especially for the $.

Has problems....

Hate this car

Great car

You get what you pay for :)

Love the car, but have had better

My Mailubu

My first car

2003 Chevy Malibu

Good Vehicle

Changed MInd

Poor engineering in abundance

2003 GM fuel pumps defective.

Great Car

Best vehicle I have ever had!

First Car At 168,000 Miles...

Dont buy it

3rd Malibu, Dissapointed

Couldn't wait to get rid of it

MALIBUS SUCK

2009 Malibu LT

No armrest padding

I would never buy this car again

A Surprise Car

EPS Should be recalled!

review of the silver bullet

My 2005 Malibu LS V6

Worst Car I have Ever Owned!

Malibu of Shame

best four door on the market 

Automatic doors lock me inside

life saving

Nice Car for the Price.

V-6 Malibu 2009

Quality of the rims

Chevy making cars that appeal to people

120,000 long, expensive miles

I've owned two

2002 Chevy Malibu

Good Car

No problems 

Not what I expected

Done with chevy

Death trap & money pit

You Get What You Pay For

Decent Car

Rattle under the dashboard

Chevy all the way

UNRELIABLE DANGEROUS CAR FOR A CHILD!!!!

best car I've ever owned

Great Car! Very Reliable

WORST DESIGN EVER!!!

Initially good, eventually very bad - must read!

A Chevy Family now!

Just purchased

From bad to worse to rotten

Our second Malibu

I love this car and would buy another.

PeppyChevy

Overall, Great Car

Malibu anti-theft malfuction

I will never buy one again

delightfull dish

Smooth and quiet

More than I expected!

Love the car

Absolutely THE BEST

A sweet ride

liked it so much I'm on my 2nd one!

Great family car

Love this Car

2011 malibu---shakey ,wobling steering wheel on take off till 20 mpr then good ride

2011 Chevrolet Malibu LT2 "Platinum Edition"

If you have it, sell it, and don't ever purchase

1st Review. Under a month

Almost an excellent vehicle

A good car - worth the value

Not My Grandma's 07 Malibu

Excellent Deal + Hidden Features

Nice to look at

May be last Chevy..

Will Be Going Back To Hondas

Gas mileage not as advertised

SaigonPaulie75

Great Car for family people

Nicest car I've ever hated

Chevrolet should be ashamed of these cars

Don't buy GM

Air bag light

Somebody didn't hear about THAT

Piece of Junk

No Thank You!

Better than what I had

Love it

Love it or hate it

Do not buy!!!

Chevy runs shallow

Best Car I Ever Owned

3 years/70k miles and still going strong

no acceleration/ headlights a pain to change

Comparable to a "Cadi"

headlights

Dependable

One of the best cars i have owned

Some driving issues

Exceeds our "expectations"

2010 Malibu LTZ

Jim's Chevrolet Malibu

Excellent Daily Driver!

This car is a maintenance nightmare

Bad Choice

are you crazy?

I absolutely love my car!

Good car for a low price

Chevy bought me over with this car 

Regret this purchase GM

I'm Going Back to Toyotas

Work Car

Not A Family Car

In Love w/ my Malibu

Good car, but some shortcomings

Three months into ownership...

Great Car

Malibu

Going on my 5th year of ownnership

Great when it's working

Malibu Falling Apart Slowly

Poorly made

great Car

2004 Malibu LT

Very Impressive

Chevrolet Malibu base model

Love my boo

Value

Nice Car

What a LEMON!

i still love my car but..........

Still new, but lovin' it so far!

2008 Malibu 

Not Happy!

Nice change

Good design, Poor quality

276,000 miles and still runs like a top!

On the cusp of 300,000...

An Accord V6 for $5500 less

Economy plus great handling

More bang for your buck

My Kind a Car.... Chevy...

Love the Malibu

Malibu, a job well done

thrilled with my used malibu lt

Review

So Far Very Reliable 

Absolutely Confident

Good car but some problems

Terrible Product Quality

this car sucks and so does gm

Great Car

Team Malibu All The Way

Great Car

Was great!

Was a nice Car

It Goes and Goes

This car has been nothing but trouble

1999 Malibu

Gone but NOT forgotten..........

BANG FOR YOUR BUCK

Best for My Money

JUNK!!!

Back to the drawing board

Nice car but...

Very much surprised at 4 cylinder performance

A Car Don't

Engine Trouble At Sixty Thousand Miles

This car is a [non-permissible content removed]

Great car

Look and Drive of More Expensive Car

A 12 year review

Definition of a "normal" car

What a waste of$

Has its quirks but keeps on plugging

Terrific bang for your dollar!

371,000 miles and counting

Terrible Car

not a good deal in the long run

Gotta love it!

What an amazing car!!!

Had for 3 years - Great car

decent used car

problems w/ engine only 71000 miles

I will NEVER buy another Chevy

Reliabilty

310,000 nd starts, runs and drives like a new car

Put the fun back in driving

Great Trade

HORRIBLE!!! STAY AWAY!!!

NEVER WILL I BUY CHEVY AGAIN

Blue Lemon!

don't buy it!

Good when it wants to be

Great Malibu

Problems

Truly the perfect sedan

286,000 miles and still going

Worst car I owned

best car I have ever owned

Chevrolet Malibu Base

All bad rewiews correct steering

European Car for American Car Price

Safe, Reliable, and Fun Car

Like it a lot!

Bye Bye GM - update

No complaints

One Hell Of A Car

Stay Away From This Car!

honeymoon is over

Oh, my.

electiric power steering

Best US Car Ever

Lot of car for the money

My New Malibu

great car

Best used car I'v had

Electrical issues anyone ?

Don't buy it!

Nice design but poor reliability

Did its job

High Mileage Winner

Watch Out!

A good Camry substitute

Good and Bad

Need  big pocket book 2 keep it going

stuck with mine

OK-good car

Five years of a Malibu

Great transmission and engine

Can't Complain

Car

Crappy Car

MalibuLemon

'97 Malibu Review

okay

Never Again!

Junk

Got my money's worth

I will only buy Chevy now

Me & My "Bu"

Money pit after 100,000 miles

Could be cheaper to maintain

Proud Malibu owner!

Only buy if you need a cheap car

Poor quality

Say No to Malibu

Just Pour Your Money Down the Drain

No Complaints

250000 miles and going strong

malibu

Crappy car

Not a bad car

She's a good car

35mpg v6 + reliable!

Love it!

My Malibu

My Malibu

great car

From a College Commuter

American Trash

So far so good - just purchased with 200K on it

A solid car

Car Performance

Never buying a Chevrolet AGAIN!

Buyer beware

my 1999 chevrolet malibu

Horrible-DO NOT BUY!!!!

okay car

It's Mine!!

WHAT A GREAT CAR!!! I LOVE IT:)

Really a decade before its time..Great car but ...

It ain't stellar, but it delivers the goods

opinion

2000 CHEVY MALIBU LS

I liked it

Very Good Quality Car! I Love It!

Wow Runs and Runs

Never own another one

Don't buy one New or Used

I got a 'lemon'

Don't Buy This Car

I Don't Know What to Do Love and Hate Relationship

Nice Surprise

So Sorry Now

We both love this car.

Drivers seat uncomfortable

after a year of ownership

47/48 mpg is a straight up lie!

Wow... who knew ?

great car

Great car

Love my 14 Malibu

Love My New Malibu 2T

No Feul Economy

A decent mid-size sedan

malibu has been a very good car, but gmc

Very Happy Customer

2014 malibu ltz 2.5L nice vehicle

just a few tips

Great Car

not bad chevy, not bad!

The Malibu 1LT gives you a lot of value for the price.

Previous Model is Better

2014 2LT

I should of got a malibu!!!!

4 wd noise

2001 LS 4.8 V8 SB

It's OK

GREAT TRUCK!  2001  Z71 327 (5.3)

Rolling Thunder

This is why Gm is going under

Good

GM Problem child

Great truck

Outstanding rating \

This thing has 95k on it?

Best truck I've had so far

Chevy got mine right!

Like a rock

155k and still going

Like My Chevy

Good

Safety Hazard

Best Truck I've Ever Driven!

Great Vehicle

great truck

Should have been recalled

my baby

1500

My Experience

Average Price, Average Quality

Good for what I use it for!

Not bad for a truck poor in quality

Superior to others

Good Truck

Great Truck!

2005 Chevrolet Silverado

Awful!

dont buy a chevey truck

Better off buying a BRICK

Best One 

Z-85

Chevy work truck

Best Truck I've Owned

Bubba's Work Truck

2004 Z-71 Crew Cab

Born to Ride...

this truck

Former Ford Owner

Junk   Lemon

4WD but only have 2WD

Silverado SS

Love this truck

2003 Silverado

Vrrrooooommm!!!

I LOVE this truck! She has never let me down.

2007 in review

Unsatisified 

Fit and finish

Chevy is the way to go

Nice but awefull interior

2 years and running!

Great Truck!

Very Disappointed

Great Garage Queen

Amazing truck!

Best truck ever built. Nobody else can compare.

Great looks and ride, poor craftmanship and quality

PURCHASE THIS TRUCK--PLEASE READ

I love my new Silverado!

Take it to the MAX

New Style Silverado

Good truck just got better

Silverado Ranch

just right.

Silverado full of promblems......

2008 Chevrolet Silverado Reg Cab Work Truck 4.8L

Great Truck

Still running great and smooth

RPM Change while driving/Idle Change...?

Almost no problems; 2008 Silverado Reg cab, LB 4wd

Problems...

A REAL review of the Chevy Silverado

Stay away from 5.3L AFM engines!

Not exactly what I expected it to be.

Somewhat disappointed!

Trans

Purchased new; 7 years and 90,000 miles later

Chevy rocks!

No Advancement

"Heartbeat of America"

Safety issues -Airbag will not inflate!

service airbag light

Can't wait till 07's GMC, Toyota, Ford

Glad I went Chevy

Should have got the V8

I Really Enjoy My Truck.

Not a durable work truck., 

Perfect Truck for me

Major Dissapointment

Love It

Changed Opinion

2007 Chevy Silverado

New LTZ Z71

Cheap interior surfaces again

2006 crew cab 4.8l

Quality truck

2006 Chevy Silverado 4WD WT 4.8L

SS

Great Truck for the Price

2006 Silverado Like a Rock

2006 Chev Silverado

Not very solid

Great Truck

Pretty Darn Good

Purchased mine with 10 years and 132K on the clock

2003 Z71 2DR

Great truck

I love this truck!

I drive it like I stole it

Ol' Reliable

Excellent Reliability!

2003 Silverado Ext Cab 4.3L

Chevrolet Rules

Good, reliable truck

Chevy Truck

POJ

Hit or Miss

Awesome truck

Awesome SS

Good Truck, but...

What you need.....a good basic truck!

Cheap build quality

chevy man

poor quality.

Supercharged Sport Truck

Best Truck

It Can't Get Better Than  This!

one fast  SS 1500

Good 4x4

Good Truck

2005 Chevy SS

Built to take it 

Not a bad truck at 5 years old.

Not a very good truck

Me and Hi Ho Silverado !

Best Ever

Tough, Dependable, Workhorse

'99 Chevy

Best Truck Ever

Almost the perfect truck

2004 Silverado XCab 5.3 with Engine Issues

Z71 Bliss

great truck

Dependable

LOVE THIS TRUCK!!!!

Perfect truck 

Great Service for 14 Years

best truck anyone could own

208K and Keeps on going

Bought New in 1999

Great Truck

1999 silverado

99 silverado LS z71 330,000 miles and still strong

Buy a Chevy

Steelers Wonder

Don't Buy

05 Work Truck-5 speed

2005 Chev Crew Cab Short Box 4X4 Z71

Love my Silverado!

230k of daily reliabily!

A Solid Reliable Beaut

Great Truck

02 silverado 200,000 and still going strong 

Excellent truck

Review

1st To 2nd Gear BUcking Transmission

Great Truck, but 

Never thought it would last this long!

Ho-Hum

2003 Chevy Silverado Timebomb

Bad truck, junk at best, lemon

ehhh

Piston Slap is not normal!

Like they state, "Like A Rock!"

Best First Car

Z71 Silverado 2001

Best Truck ever

engine knock

2001 chevy silverado 4x4 z71

2000 Chevy Silverado 1500 V8

2000 Silverado 1500 LT

Best truck I have owned

chevy runs deeeeeeeep

Love my Chevy

good overall truck

best buy

Like A Rock

Great truck

Excellent Truck

Pretty good half ton

Chevy's last stand

Much Satisfied

Silverado

Always a Chevy man

Makes me smile !

Do People Really Test Drive These Cars

the Malibu Eco sucks

Test one out for yourself

Solid traveler but lacking acceleration oomph!

BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT!!!!!!!!!!

Solid car and quiet

Great Car

General Motors has done a great job!I l

Enjoyable car, but not best of the best

I love my Maibu but disappointed.

Really Love This Car

2015 Chevy Malibu Ls

Love this car!

Would rent, Would not buy.

A Very Good Buy

STEERING WHEEL LOCKS WHILE DRIVING

Awesome Car!

Solid Vehicle

Malibu now a great car

awsome

2LTZ Pride

Great car - except for a few things

Good basic sedan, but not a top choice...

dont buy!! a waste of road space

Just hit 30,000 miles and not a glitch.

Impressed so far...

Feel smart for buying this car

Excellant

Choose Wisely...

2013 Malibu ECO 2SA

Good Car, Poor Assembly Quality...

Classy Car

High Quality Interior and Great Ride

Electrical problems

Malibu over others in segment

My first Chevy... Great car.

Butte Red/Brownstone 2014 Malibu 2LTZ

Great Value and I do not like American Cars.

this malibu is for you

New Star in Midsize Car Market

Forget German & Japanese Cars -

I can't believe it's not an import!

Best Kept Secret

Great American car!!

Constant problems

Fantastic refined midsize sedan

FLatulant Malibu

GM has really stepped up its game

Generally a pleasant, likable car

Awesome Car

Best Malibu EVER

Nice ecenomical Car!

Love it

2017 malibu lt

Same OLD Uninterested General Motors

Love our 2017 Malibu LT

First ownership of a GM Vehicle

Premier Model: Everything excellent but mileage

Amazing daily commute and long trips car!

Great Commuter car even for tall people

Never will get a GM product again!!!

Chevrolet hammered this one out of the PARK!!

A great mid size car that checks all the boxes

Fantastic! Base engine is definitely adequate

Great looks, performance and comfort... I'm a fan!

Love this vehicle

2.0 is the way to go!

Leased a 2016 LS Malibu Silver Color

Great so far! (update....still great!)

Refined car that does everything well

Has some good traits and some bad traits

2011 Chevy with 6.2

5.3 aluminum block active mgmt. engine look out

I hate my 2011 silverado 

Not Happy at all!

Not fun to drive!

Paint has dust under clearcoat that is causing bubbles

Perfect Truck...I'm Proud to Own It!

LT with 5.3 6 Speed Transmission

NICE TRUCK!`

don't buy the 6 speed transmission!

Don't buy the 6 speed transmission!

2012 Chevy Silverado

Low Power Poor Fuel Mileage

Chevy Trucks Rock

2012 Chevy Silverado 1500  Best Built truck today!

tire trouble

cluncking in low gears 

worst truck ever

Very Nice Truck

Should have bought a Ford

Remotelink doesn't work with GM dealer remote start

Love This Truck!

Z71 LTZ PIECE OF JUNK

worse truck ever

Great Work Truck

Great Value for superior truck

25,000 mile review

My new Siverado

Great Improvement By GM

vibration problems

It Shakes

Too many issues!

2014 Silverado disappointment

my bad truck

2014 Silverado V6 work truck

Happy in New Hampshire!

2014 Chevy Silverado Engine Misfire!!!!!!!!!!

Shakerado

Looks great, lots of problems big and small

2014 Chevy Silverado

Good for 500 miles, then it's a vibrator with no fix

Loved it at first....growing concerned

Vibrate, Shake & Shudder

New Model Year - Unreliable

2014 Silverado crew cab Texas edition LT 5.3 2WD

Safety Problem - rear head restraints in crew cab

Not the Alfa of old

Alfa Quad is almost practical

This Car is The Ultimate Panty Dropper

Love it

Had to buy it

Love the car, if the electronics only worked

Something special!

This car is a head turner

Beauty only skin deep

I Love my Vantage

Love that V8 Vantage

Best Of All Worlds

WOW

Excellent - Best Sports Car I Have Owned

A  keeper

Exclusive!!!

Wonderful car

A Perfect Sports Car!

AM Vantage V8 is a winner

Finally...

My AM V8 Vantage

Best fun on wheels!

Simply the best

2015 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 Crew Cab

$35,000 
Love the truck, HATE the OnStar!

Proud Toyota convert

Beware of NEW transimission

Vibration Frustration!

Shakerado is more like it: Buyer Beware

Shakey

2015 Chevy Silverado crewcab

Humpty Dumpty performance

Love This Truck

Best new truck I have owned

2015 Z71 6.2L PILE OF GARBAGE

Horable trucks 2015 silverado 5.3 ls doublecab 4X4

Chevy lover with a horrible experience.

Satisfied

No Real Complaints

first new vehicle

dispointed

Expected more from Chevy flagship pickup

Classy

Dream Wheels

Not for the faint

Broke the first day.

Not perfect, but the best car ever!

just got a 2011 vantage!

N420 A Driver's Car

A sports car you can use everyday!

James Bond's car make of choice

A great car for the right person

V8 vantage convertible

Sportster Even More Fun

Like A Melody

Constant Transmission Problems

Expensive, but worth it fun and class!

Not for everyone and that's part of its appeal...

Great Value

Impressive Truck

In 2011, Best Bang For Buck, 2011 Silverado LT 4x4 Crew Cab 5.3L

6 speed auto trans

Excellent Choice

Very Happy

Excellent truck

My 2011 Silverado Extended Cab

Best Chevy truck yet!

2011 chevy silverado LT 4x4 5.3L

Should have gone with my gut..

Love it

Garbage Motors

What a Mess

Chevy LIES about quality improvements!

09 Silverado excab 5.3 

Enjoying my time with my 09

2009 2door WT long box with 4.3

Z71, 6 Speed Auto, Cheap(er) 

So far.....great

After only 5 years - too many things wrong with it

Built on a Friday

First Chevy Truck

Great truck

Overall Nice Truck

2009 Chevy Lemon

High Milage

Throttle Body failed 2 times in 3 years

Last Truck I will need to buy

Don't buy one

My last Cheverolet

poor mpg

Gas hog

Silverado

Great Initial Ownership Experience

2010 Chevy Silverado 5.3  crew z71 44x4

First New Truck.

Poor Quality

Super Silverado!

Maybe a little too fancy

A Home Run

I love my 2010 Z71!!!!

Poor Quality Build

Love My Silverado

MY SILVERADO COMES THROUGH

Good lookin' Red Truck

I LOVE MY TRUCK

Rattles my teeth

Good gas milage

2016 Silverado LS regular cab short bed 5.3 v8

Drove this through Montana. It's sweet...

Great truck good deal

Utter Disappointment.

Pleasantly Surprised - Very Nice

Just got it

Great Family Truck

V6 Truck, no way.

Rented 4 pickups bought the Silverado

Long time F150 owner now Chevy!

Replaced my 2007 Chevy Silverado

Don't buy a z71 4x4 silverado

john damphier - heavy equipment operator, the 5,3

1500 Silverado is best in value.

Great buy

Extremely pleased with Silverado LTZ

Do not waist your money!!!

Major mistake, never again. good buy chevy.

VIBRATION ISSUES!!! 
My First New Truck In 25 Years

Love this truck

"Disappointed"

What happened to my Car Play!

Good Truck for the money

Spare Tire

cost scaving parts used

2013 LT 1500 crew

1st Silverado Purchase

sweet ride

Outstanding machine!

Driving the Future

Drive One

BMW i8

This can be your dream made true

Good - but could have been so much better

For the M purist

Excellent collectable

E34 M5

my 91 m5

A Beautiful Classic

Truly a Brute in a Suit

Wow - What a Car!

I Do Not Let Car Reviewers Decide For Me. I Do.

Worst decision ever!

Sport Activity Vehicle I'm in LOVE

great

First Date

Not just a pretty face

Perfect size SUV with style

Love this car!

Fourth BMW, and best one yet

 A Distinct Driving Experience

m2

2017 BMW M2  6 Month Owner Review

Run's like a scalded monkey!

Middle of all Things

Elevated joy

Nothing Short of Fantastic

Elevated joy

Went in for a GT - left with X5M

More utility than M5, Almost as fun to drive

sick fast

A true exotic that you need to drive to believe

If you like 80's exotics, this car is for you.

Most fun car I have ever owned

Alfa Lovers Only

I LOVE MY USED (NEW-TO-ME) BMW i3!

Tires worn out in less than 3 Months /2000 miles 

BUGGY

Horrible experience -returned  in one day!

I am an i3 believer!

19 Months and Lovin' It!

Long Term Drive

22000 miles and 18 gallons of fuel later

Most efficient EV in the market

I3 the electrical failure

M3

Wow what a car!

Amazing M3

I'd buy it again

Awesome Car, Hope it Lasts Forever!

Owned it for 16 years

Commute to Work & Run at the Glen

A Quality Car You Will Enjoy 

The best there is

Finally got my dream car

Best Overall Sports Car Ever

da bomb

Classic BMW. . . 

Finally own one

Fantastic Car

Good Start

Everything I imagined

The ultimate driving  machine!

1999 bmw M3

BMW M3 Still Impresses

Great handling, lots of fun

Always fun to drive

Eight years old and we can't let go

1998 M3 Sedan is outstanding

Best of the best

Not a slug

what a car..

The best M I've ever driven

The Ideal High-Performance Car

Fantastic Vehicle

Best BMW car

Perfection on Four Wheels

Keeps me smiling

2004 BMW M3 Convertible

A great beast!!

wow

Did we miss the exit - again!!!

M3 Cic SMG

2002 M3 COUPE

Automotive Perfection?

Underpowered

Best M3 ever!

Had my E92 M3 for about 2 months now

Dr. Jekyl & Mr. Hyde

Love my M3

Lives up to its legendary billing!

Car for all moods

my m3 coupe

Love it

M3 - The new BEAST?

Elegant Supercar

new m3 convertible

If you like to drive

Not worth it

M3 Sedan

Very Good car with the expected drawbacks

Does it all. Don't leave your gas card at home. 

From 07 335i to 08 M3

Awesome-But not amazing

First reivew on 2008 E92 M3

M3 Perfection

Replaced my M3 with an M3!

Too early to tell

Unbelievable

Best sports coupe under $100K

None Better

Good Step Up for Me

Best sports sedan, period.

Beautiful, but disappointing performance

M3 coupe rocks!!

Exceeded Expectations

You have to be kidding me

Best car for the money

Better than 911 or Benz AMG

The best M3 ever built!

Best every day car possible

"Funtastic super car Chameleon!"

This car is a BEAST!!!

Outstanding Performance Sedan

This car has it all

The Ultimate driving machine

What a blast

Awesome!

Fun at First - Then the poor quality

A supercar that has a back seat.

close to perfect

M3 - 2004

A German Delight

Can't buy more fun

BMW M3 Convertible---FAST & AWESOME!!

With Upgrades, Pretty Much The Perfect Car

Turbine Smooth

All in one!!! Performance, Style and Reliability

Best sports car ever

$60k lemon

If the next one's better?

What I thought it was....Awesome

E46 M3

Near perfect

///M Sweet

The last of a legacy!

Fun car for good weather

06 M3 Convertible

2005 BMW M3 w/Comp Package

BEST IN SHOW!!

Outstanding Performance and Handling

A Blast!

Feels like an old friend...

Expensive Toy

An amazing vehicle

BMW M3 - Hype from Reality

M-3 smg is slug

bmw m3

See you in my rear view mirror

bimmer 

Satisfied

Quite possibly the perfect car

Satisfied customer

M3 convertible

Satisfied

Mid-life ride

Best value for the money

Love this Car.

BMW M3

Nice, but way overrated.

Good showing from the last true M-car

E46 M3 Coupe - One Gorgeous Machine

Best bang for buck under 100k

To Hot Not To Love

Like Napoleon sez

Everything I expected it to be

1999 BMW M3

BMW M3

Didn't match Hype

Best deal to be had!

Could be better

M3, the only 3 series to own.

Outstanding Vehicle

Still smiling two years later

Critical Owner

STILL THE BEST!!!!

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Damn, the baby's coming!

Damn, the baby's coming!

Still like it better than the new M3

is the m3 worth buying?

'05 M3 Convertible

Unbelievable

Exceeded high expectations

Another Winner

Just a Great Car by BreHouse

BMW M3 Black/Cinnammon SMG

Superb Drive

Great performing coupe

Very fast Love Corners!!!

One Word: Amazing!

too much money for the car

Don't Buy M3 Conv.-Noisy top, unreliable

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Best Overall Sports Coupe!

my 2001 m3 convertable

Love It!

How can they improve on this?!

Best car I've owned, Period !!!!!!

EconoHunk

M3 convertible...it's true what they say

The thrill of a Bimmer

Still the Best

Germans got this one right!

Perfect Coupe

Great Car, a Little More Quality Control

Incredible

My second M3

rafic street king

If it had wings, it would fly

MMMMM Good!

Think twice M3

M3 after Nissan Maxima

BMW stands for: " Bring My Wallet !"

Pure sports car for mechanics

Awesome BMW

BMW e46 M3, Porsche performance for less

No wonder there's a waiting list....

My Faviorite BMW So Far

My Dream Car-The Ultimate M3 Convertible

PERFECT, PERFECT, PERFECT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Beauty!!

Parked my M3 Convertible

A Simply Amazing Car...

best m3 in this world

BMW M3-GREAT PERFORMANCE MACHINE

Good car....but has it's issues

Best used car under $15k!!!

THE Driver's Car.

Nice ride

YES IT IS THE ULTIMATE DRIVING MACHINE

M3 = :)

Excellent Machine

Performance and Practicality in one car!

1995 M3 review

A true dream come true.

A great car, with lots of power

Perfect Car

Best bang for the buck!

world reknown for a reason

Awesome Performance. Expensive to Maintain.

Beware of the hype...

'02 BMW M3

The Ultime Driving Machine!

The M3 made me a new BMW fan

1995 BMW M3

Best Car of My Life

Truly an Ultimate Driving Machine

1995 BMW M3 Review

Great car, terrible for younger drivers!

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Perfect Fun to Drive Car

Life of an M3 by M FACE

Best Car I've Ever Owned!!!

Yes, I have indeed arived.

Excellent all around vehicle

No Comparison

Worth the wait and every penny you spend

Rear Sedan from MOTORSPORT-3

Best handling car

M3 - Nothing like it

Ultimate Four Door Sadan

Possibly The Perfect Car

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Simply Amazing

1997 BMW M3 SEDAN

FUN CAR but better be a DIY past 120K

The King of the Crop

I love this car

This is the car for you!!!

Asks much of you, but very rewarding...

Wonderful

great driver but a few serious flaws

Near Perfect

Its a BMW and an EV!

Driving a Spaceship

Some awesome things, some not so good.

Ok car

The Future is Here Today

Awesome ride!

BMW i3 Breaks first week

not worth the premium

Better than expected!

BMW i3 Rex First Month Impressions

Edmunds Lease Help with BMWi3 Lease

Shockingly wunderbar!

Great Car when it is not in the shop

Sold the V12 Mercedes to go electric

i3 VS 2013 Chevy Volt

Great automobile except for...

Awsome vehicle!

Outstanding Car

Great update for 2017

Love the quiet

Almost perfect electric vehicle

No Anxiety- Range Curiosity

It is a great car

So far a great choice!

Jim's 16-day bmw i3 review

Zippy car

Love my rocket

Love love love this car.

Worth every penny.

After 1 yr living electric

Best all around sports car

The best M3 ever?

Euro 3.8L

So many annoying things.. BMW, when will you learn

Awesome M4

2015 M4 Coupe...Oh, my...

A Year Later And I Still Love My 2015 M4

After 1 year, still love the M4

OH MAN

An Amazing Sedan from BMW

The bad beast

Cuts the road like a hot knife in butter

M5 Perfection

Amazing

Move over Porsche

To Infinity & Beyond

Love this car...

Fun to Drive

Great car, but fragile

The Best Vehicle I have ever owned

Talk About a Dual Personality

"simply the Bast"

of da chain

SEcond M5

It is sure the best

Just What You'd Expect....

The Ultimate Driving Machine

M5

this car is sick

Instant Woody

A wold in sheep's clothing

Can't be beat

What a Car

BEAST

If you want only one car...

Awesome Car

M5 Heaven

Best car on the road

BMW M5

E39 M5 The Ultimate Sedan

M5 Satisfaction

M5 vs. M3

What a car....

"M Series are the real ultimate driving 

2002 BMW M5 Review

Envy of Sport cars

awesome 5er

400 HP Imola Red Super Sedan

Wouldn't Trade it for ANYTHING

The Real 4 Door Sports Car

BMW M5

Sweet

Amazing

As good as it gets

Ah-mazing!

Black Thunder

A relative review

My 01 M5 - The LeMans Blue Beast.

Freude am Fahren

Drive and you shall Believe

Best Hidden Beast Around

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Great Pre-Owned Vehicle

SMOKIN HOT!!!

BMW E39 M5 2001

You all want this, let's be honest

Scary Fast

2001 M5

Awesome

Loving every mile

love it

great car

Can't drive slow

Best Sports Sedan -- Period

Blew me away

Unequaled Luxury Rocket

The Best Yet

WOW

Ultimate driver

No compromise required!

The E39 M5 probably the best saloon for the $$

E-39 M5

Fun Everyday

Worth it

A few issues with the M5

Hot Wheels At Its Best

M5

Amazing Car

The ULTIMATE Ultimate Driving Machine

One sweet M4 convertible

Batmobile on steroids

Not user friendly

Great car, my 2nd M

M4

BMW M4 CONV

Fun to drive but controls not intuitive

M4 the great

Ultimate Driving Machine

Disappointing after all the hype

Not a perfect car, but you'll never find one...

2011 BMW M3 Coupe Review

Wonderful sound, great handling coupe

Best toy I've ever owned

Powerful, great on the eyes, gulps gas

M3 Sedan

Fast, Practical, But Not Perfect

Too early but here is my 1st impression!

Fun when you need it

Bad to the Bone

Reliability Issues, disappointed

Super sports sedan - room to improve in luxury

Best M3

Another BMW M-3 Review

One Bad Bimmer

Best BMW Ever

Best I have ever owned

Astounding

Perfection personified

BMW M5 - World Class Fun

Such a fun beast to be in

Mighty M5

Ultimate revving machine

My Dream Car!

Awesome!

Vroom vroom.  675 HP DINAN

My first BMW

Build roads with more curves

Good not great

BMW M6

Best car I've ever owned!

Thrilled

Spaceship @ Warpspeed

Two great cars in one!

I wanted more!

M6... oh yeah baby!

'08 M6 Coupe

Just got one

Great car, HORRIBLE TRANSMISSION

They are right, the transmission is bad!

My White 2006 M6 Coupe

Fun Fun Car to drive

BMW M6 Convertible

Superb Alll Rounder

BMW M6 is FUN!

Tranny issues that cannot be resolved!

BMW M6

Awesome Car

A civil 996 turbo

Exotic Ride for Mid Range Expense

Great but Picked On Car.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT THE M6

M6 CON VERTABLE

2007 BMW M6

M6 has looks, style, speed, comfort

It *IS* my everyday car

What an AWESOME car!!

A track car, not for every day use

BMW M6 Coupe

BMW M6 Convertible

Great uncomfortable car for everyday

Critics are too OLD!

The best ever

Happy

M5 Get one.

2013 M5 Loaded

My Baby

No More 2nd Thoughts

Car Nirvana

What I expected

Owner m5 2008

Great Car

Best car I have owned!!

Can NOT go back

Oh My...

No More 2nd Thoughts Part 2

No More 2nd thoughts Part 3

The SMG Beast 

Little disappointed

FUN to drive

M5 has character

Not up to BMW M standards

Buyer Beware

Fun but expensive to own

M5 MMM

2007 BMW M5

This car is awesome

Performance Only

Super Car

Porsche in a Tuxedo

Buttoned down ground pounder

Super sedan

Bow down,  the King has returned!

One to stay in the garage forever

Delayed Review

M5 rides again

Don't Make the Same Mistake!

Happy m5 owner

Experience with 2006 M5

State of the art in performance

Best Luxury Sedan on the Planet

lacking

Gas mileage is not as promised other than that it's great SUV

Unique Value

A great all-around package.

Honestly still love the car - sure footed in snow

One year and only 4 tanks of gas

Good Engineering

Horrible experience with brand new bmw x5 e drive

Not a reliable and safe car! No more BMW!

Great ride marred by crappy tires

X5 + Hybrid Motor = Winning

Fantastic SUV with Great MPG

smooth ride and fast when juice is full

I love the performance and fuel efficiency

Nice SUV but not BMW performance

Better than expected!!!

Adorable Car!

BMW X1

A high performance station wagon

Practical, Powerful, and fun too!

Does what it says

X1 performs as review suggest

Great for Everyday commute in the city

Beware of the tires!

Wow! This is Fun!

My $600 phone is easy to use $39,000 car is not

VW TDI Sport-Wagon Replacement

quick and nimble with no cost maintenance.  sign me up.

Underwhelmed....ho...hum.

Awesome Ride

X1 a poor man's Macan S

Not happy

Great Vehicle

X1 perfect and fun

Fun to drive and fuel saving!

Great fun to drive

2013 X1

Goldilocks Size, Gold Bullion Price

fun exciting peppy little cuv - very pleased.

Sport Hatchback that BMW doen't technically make

Great AWD wagon

Satisfied not amazed

X5

2000 BMW X5 4.4i AWD Automatic

BMW X5 Review

Best Vehicle ever owned!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

2000 X5 Rating

X5

X5 ANOTHER DREAM MACHINE

Looking for another brand next time

Worst car or truck I have ever owned!

Experience with BMW X-5

Stay Away

the truth

Best SUV yet

A Great Sporty SUV!

owner for two years  .    a   great grocery getter

A BMW 3 Series as a small SUV

perfect crossover

car 1

'Disappointment' is the best compliment this car gets

Big Disappointment

Tak ada fun right out of my BMW

Much Better than Expected

from 325i to X1

great car

30days and 3000 miles

EDP X1

A BMW from the good old days of BMW design

Not For Everyone, But Great Car For Me

Great compact SUV (hatchback)

Unbelievable

Best value especially used!

Great BMW M6

Once you go M6 you will never go back

A (very) entry BMW....

Great little SUV

Continually Amazed by BMW

Should NOT have the BMW badge

Just got one.

X4 M40i

X4 M40i Size-wise-good-stuff

Wow, Very Impressed

Test drove the Macan S and M40i

Great vehicle

Test drove only a short distance

So far so good

X1 the smaller choice

Finally bought a BMW after looking for 15 years

Great mult-purpose vehicle

Nice car, but dealership service dept is worthless

Love my X1

We love our 2016 BMW X1 / Chestnut Bronze Metallic

Wouldn't Get Another One

Great SUV

2017 X1 a Different Car From the 2015 X1

sexy and complicated

X1  not a BMW

AVOID THE X1!

Bigger than it looks Driving Dynamics Control with

First BMW

X1 is it a BMW?

agree to disagree

Completely different car from earlier X1's

Long time BMW owner

WOW!! What a car!!

Best small SUV currently available

So far, so good

Exactly what I was looking for

After a year, love it even more!

Terrific car!

My first BMW - wont be my last!!

A real nice SUV

Great value, and ROOMY! Beautiful vehicle!

It's a little/BIG SUV/SAV

Significant improvement from the prev. generation!

The Good, the Bad and the Ugly

My wife is now officially a "car girl"

Xceptional!

Need for Speed

Simply Spectacular

My new M6

Great car ruined by transmission flaws 

Fun to drive? Yes; Plenty of Problems? YES

First and Last

Proud owner of an X5

Has its flaws

Best SUV ever!

Best Sports Car Amongst SUVs

My first bmw

The truck that drives like a car

Great SAV...better then Japanese

Best car yet

Horrible quality and workmanship

THE WORST SUV YOU WILL EVER BUY!!!

fun but drinks gas

I'm In Love

Great Vehicle

Upgraded from 4.4i to 4.8is

splendid

BMW believer now

Take A Very, Very Long Test Drive !

X5 Rules the fun-to-drive SUV Market

Better than all the rest.

Good, so far!!

New to me X5

I Will Never Buy Another BMW

Junk

2006 BMW X5

BMW X5 4.4

I love my new X5!

Wow!!

3rd row seat coming

powerful car for size

OWNER

A real luxury performance vehicle

Love it

Awesome

No regrets, but.....

First full year of enjoyment completed!

Wanted to...

Best BMW X5 Yet

Better than anticipated

2016 BMW X5 Xdrive 35i

First BMW and won't be the last. Love the X5

Sports Car In SUV Clothing!!

Buy one today!

Horrible Gas Mileage- dont believe the  stats from

My X5

Love my X

The Best Value SUV Used. Nothing Better!

THE X5 ROCKS!!!!!!

Bulletproof Bavarian

Incredible vehicle, effortless steering, swift

x5 is excellent

Excellent combination of beauty and beast!!!

Nothing compares

Great Driving, poor spacer

Awesome

Will never go back to gas engines

Good but miss expectation

Great Car

Perfect

Almost Perfect Car, has a few quirks though...

Buyer Beware of problematic Air Conditioner

2015 arrive 3.5 Diesel

Smooth Quiet Ride

A Disgrace to BMW

Solid SUV, Great Hybrid Performance

Love it

Fifth x5 in a row

X5, the best until the X7 might beat it?

I THOROUGHLY ENJOY MY NEW X5!!

Good hauler

In the shop after 600 miles

fun to drive!  the 8 cyl engine is awesome.

My bmw

Biggest bucket of worms I've ever owned

People mover with class and performance 

Big Machine Worth it !

One year after purching X5

2009 BMW X5 4.8i

leaky, oily and sealless

I've been had!

First BMW X5 purhcase...

Quality issues ?

Buy one, love it, and be prepared for maintenance

Great SUV

Roadside Assistance is a Scam

Buyer be aware!

Wish it were more reliable

All that and more!  Really!

Dead Battery

Excellent 

Disappointed

Marginal Vehicle

My Best Buy

Best X5 Ever

A Refined Step up from prior X5s - Legendary BMW

Bummer is Best

Beautiful but it's the last US made BMW I'll get

BMW are terrible especially if buying from Peoria

My 3rd X5

Worst car ever

My 3rd X5 SAV

Great car, Poor service. Cannot get them to do an oil change

Great Car -- Highly Recommended after 1 Year Use

Bye Bye X5

X5 50is

Vroom Diesel 

Wow  What a vehicle

2011 refinements perfect the X5

The Cost To Maintain

Beautiful vehicle, but still has flaws

oil field

X5 50i 9K mile whine update

Airbags Failed to Deploy in Rollover

Favorite Vehicle that I Have Owned

A great vehicle- now at 184,000 miles

BMW X3 overview

Small BMW SUV a Winner

Great in the snow

Fun but only with a warranty folks

2004 BMW X3 3.0

very high maintenance dealership poor service

Hard to Hold...

Best Sport Utility Vehicle Ever Made

Not a good ownership experience

Not your father's Oldsmobile...

Punishing ride.

Everything is going wrong at 60k plus

WOW including MPG

*drool*

No Southern Comfort

Not totally in love

2010 BMW X5d

Beat Expectations

Fun little SUV

BMW X3

The 2.5 Manual Has Enough Power

Bimmer Family

It just keeps getting better

X5 35d

German engineering at its finest

By all means, stay away from the x5 50i.

Awesome machine

Very Poor Reliability

2010 BMW X5d

Good but not good enough

This Diesel ROCKS!!!!

Love it still, after 18,500 miles

Luxury ride

Great SUV

Enjoy Driving X5 35d

X5 Diesel 2013 is a game changer!

Overrated

First BMW

Great used car to buy

I Love This Car!

If you need an SUV, consider a Diesel

Nice car, but unreliable

Went 2013 over 2014

2013 x5 diesel

Think twice before buying a 2013 X5

Disappointing vehicle

Overall good midsize SUV.

My first BMW

CPO purchase, no big complaints, but updated

diesel hot rod

BMW Assist - Waste of money

Magical Car

good car

Not for Family

Great car ,reliable  ,fun to drive

Very Nice

Best of Both Worlds

Great vehicle!

Fuel Pump issue and putting on a hitch aftermarket

Yes to BMW X5

Love it, but....

BMW does not protect electronics from melted snow or grocery spills in the cargo area

New X5

Glad I Chose a 2012 BMW X5 Diesel

Fun to drive but have software issues

LOVIN' MY 2012 BIMMER

2012 BMW X5 Issues too many already! Disappointed.

Repeat Customer

BMW X5 Rocks!

Muscle Car SUV

On cloud nine!

Unreliable and horrific repair costs.

How BMW lost a 15 year customer

Love It AND Hate It

Confidence in the Passing Lane

Incredibly expensive to maintain the V8 Bi-Turbo

1.5 Year BMW X5 experience

Do not buy

BMW lover no more

Is this really a BMW

X5, The Other Side Of SUV`s

Where i went wrong

Extremely poor build quality

Garbage reliability

Worst Car I have owned 

Great performance and reliability

Rocket Ship

Only paid $4500 for it

Beware the 4.4i N62 engine- known issues

AN INEXPENSIVE WAY TO LUXURY AND FUN!!!!

Still The Ultimate Driving Machine

Pleasure to drive

What was I thinking?

Slow response transmission

worst car I've ever owned

2008 BMWX5 Transmission

Second Thoughts

After having two X3s we now have an X5

Love the X5 but lots of serious issues

Dreaded Alternator Bracket Oil Leak 

2008 BMW 4.8i X5 Sport Pkg at 5 Yrs, 50K

Shoulda remembered not to buy Euro car w 40k+miles

water pump fail

Safety defect with BMW X5 4.8i

2008 BMW X5 4.8i Sport

Better have deep pockets and patience.

BEST CAR EVER OWNED

New X5 Owner

Worst SUV in History

Real lemon

Great ride, but we've had a few issues.

Great Car... But Get A Vehicle Service Contract!

Worst vehicle we have ever owned

Huge dissapointment!

Road Warrior

Total Package

Love it, Love it, Love it........Oh Yeah

It feels like a Bimmer

Falls apart after 50k Miles!

7 Series Comfort and SUV Convenience

Junk!  Never again BMW. Just lost another customer

Very Disappointed - Definitely not worth the money

Reliability Problems All Around

Total Electrical Meltdown, 2007 BMW X5

The best car ever made

Worst nightmare!!

X5 at it's best!

Great Car

My LAST BMW

"Certified" means nothing

Worst vehicle I've ever owned

BMW Quality FAIL

Never Again

Like it a lot!

BMW Lover

A tank with style and performance.

nice ,fun,safe

It's a BMW

BE CAREFUL WHEN BUYING A USED X5

first class Lemon

This is the best- handling SUV

Gotta love it

Overpriced

Excellent SUV

Overcomplicated Undependable 4th car  

conflicted feelings abound

Best I Have Owned

Awesome Driving Machine

Sold on X5

a headache from the beginning

Nicest SUV at the Trailhead

The most expensive cheap car ever

Seven years young and still superb ...

X5 best SUV

Maintenance Hog

Never will buy X5 again

very impressed

Mechanical Nightmare

Great SUV

Engine Gasket Problem

Good but not Great

This luxury SUV stinks big time!

Great value + safty

It's still a BMW

Don't buy this SUV

BMW - The ultimate Money Pit - Bee Emm TroubleYou

Better vehicle to be designed yet

45K Driven on '02 Sport in 5 Years, Just Can't Let it Go

Love It, But Wouldn't Buy It Again.

X5 4.6is Fun, but expensive

A+++  X5 BMW SUV

The Ulitimate Driving Machine

Seriously?

Stay away, stay far away...

BMW...B.ite M.y W.ealth

Not what I've expected

I Missed Christmas twice. No Rent money  

Sports Car Performance, Business Require

Quality with performance 

Surprising satisfying 3.0 inline 6

Best SUV on the road

sportcar with suv advantages

X5 Boy!!!

Great Car

Teutonic titan

Mixed bag

Drive train ok but POS vehicle on top of it.

Ultimate Citiy/Suburb Road Warrior

2003 bmw x5.

X5 Review from Kenya

2003 BMW X5

great sav

An honest X5 review

2003 BMW X5 3.0i

Mixed Review

Fun vs. Frustration

bmw x5 

2006 BMW X3 (purchased 10/22/2006)

BMW fan buys another good one

Perfection

Love My X3!

06 X3

Fun, reliable and good gas milage

Lovin' it

Incredible SAV

4 months experience with BMW  X3

Not happy

Worse Vehicle Ever!

Fun to drive

New to BMWs

Extremely poor reliability

Good car little maintenance required

BMW needs to learn to design seats

Love my Beamer

2016 BMW X3 Diesel vs GLK250

Fun to drive but...

Delightful diesel

Outstanding car!

I survived!

Great ride but snug

You get more than you see

Small but BIG * Update

First German car.

Another "like it but"

I like it, but...

2011 BMW X3 xDrive28i

First time BMW owner

I'm very picky and I love this car.

The ultimate driving machine, SUV edition

Will not start, louisy Customer Service

love hate relationship

Over 130,000 miles and still going strong!

2016 BMW X5M vs X5 xdrive50i

X5M versus Cayenne Turbo

Glad I bought it over the Q5

ALMOST Perfect SUV

Mileage overstated!

X3 rocks!

Snazzy

BMW X3 35i

Engine, engine, and engine, but that's all.

Reliability , reliability , reliability .....

Nice but very fragile

Too many trips to dealership!

The X3 is Awesome!

2nd review

WOW sports car with a back pack!

Best mid size SUV available.

Wish I hadn't bought this car

Expensive, but you get what you pay for

The best of all worlds.

Love My Ride

Satisfied 2013 X3 Customer

Loving the X3

2015 BMW X3 DIESEL 31,000 MILES SINCE JUNE 2015

Great reliable premium SUV

Love my Bimmer

Only one problem with this car

Best Ever SAV

This is my 2nd X3.  It proves once again the best car of its class.

Love love love this car!!!

Good so far

Beware-Great drive/poor value

Good car

Love love love my new BMW

Great if you have money for repairs

Blue Water baby

Very nice and quite expensive with options.

Love averything but the tires

Fantastic all purpose vehicle

BMW X3 A Jolly little toy for adults

Great Compromise

After 5 BMWs this one was my last

Plenty of power and plenty of fun.

fantastic vehicle

Offer an upgrade for back seats!

BMW has lost their quality

Love our X3

My new X3

I like it but...

Major problems with the 2011-BMW-X3

My new X3

My new X3....Next time, maybe I will buy a Hyundai

First SUV -It's a Good One!

I got a lemon.

My first BMW

a hot mess of annoying little issues

2012 X3 M Fully Loaded WOW WOW WOW!

Love the car but...

Great Choice

It can't get any better than this.

the most fun to drive suv

Two weeks, four days old and in shop 17 days

A Car Built for Disasters

Just Amazing

bucket list

The car-lover's SUV

Crazy fun for a daily driver

Part 2 of N52 engine really has problems

Really fun to drive

2008 BMW X3

First and Last BMW

Overpriced Horrid BMW Model

Bucking bronco

Never Again

BRAKES FAILED

Still One of The Funniest Cars I've Owned

Great SAV /Sports car

Sheared Motor Mount Bolts

BMW, never again

Never again

N52 engine really has problems

I'm very much disappointed

This can't be an SUV

The Perfect All Around Vehicle

Practical mpg and traction - Fun driving dynamics!

Mary Ann - Warwick

First generation X3, true BMW

Second X3 better than the first

Would Recommend 2008 BMW X3

Love my X3!

One great small SAV

let down

I absolutely love my BMW!

No COMPASS when hot

You have to drive an X3.

certifed used X3 in 2009

This car is a 4 wheel nightmare

Great SUV!

X5 goodbye

Amazing car

2007 BMW X3 3.0si

I love it but, it doesn't love me?!

BMW X3 is a driving experience

Great Car...So Fun To Drive!

Hesitation-awful transmission

Just an amazing piece of machinery

Goodbye !

Compared 7 Vehicles

I got my BMW!

Not for everyone

Fantastic Driving Experience

Love this vehicle

So far so great!

Good SUV for the money

Very very nice car

Off to a great start

Somebody Stop Me (From Having So Much Fun)

Great Crossover SUV IF you can afford it

My first bmw

Wonderful SAV - Still in Love!

New improved 2007 X3

Dream ride

Finally found the right vehicle

Careful with this one

BMW X3

BMW X3 M Package

5th BMW

People shouldnt buy BMW anymore

Disappointed!

Perfect balance of between sport & luxury

POCKET ROCKET

Great to drive but safety features lag behind

Upgrade from X1 to X3

It's no Saab

Eleven years going strong

Great Car

The best SUV for the money

Not happy

First BMW ever!

I still love it

On top as usual

X3

Great ride, but...

2006 X3 problematic

Manual transmission and Sunroof

Great car but repairs are expensive.

fun to drive and reliable

It is all in the engineering! No frills

Best in class

Made Me A Believer

120,000 miles later

LOONG ROAD TEST!  181K

Good Daily Driver

62K miles and going strong

awesome

Over 40?

Very good CPO Buy

Overall Great Car

BMW X3

645 ci has no equal in the market

Phenomenal

What a car

fun

The 6 Series 

Take a second look at me!

Muscle Mania!

This car has far exceeded my expectation!

Previous Porsche owner's observations

Awesome on the Autobahn

SOOOOO Sweeet

awesome car

Awesome

SUN ROOF "less"

Excellent condition

The Ultimate Driving Machine

ultimate driving machine

Very happy

"OH MY GOD"

BMW 650i is superb

SUV?

Overall, good.  Problems with hybrid system

A great car!

Yikes, that steering

Love the stlyle

Don't miss this great BMW 435 series M upgrade

Wants to run

Best Luxury Sport Convertible

so sweet...

best convertible ever

Awesome car!

Close to Perfect

Outstanding for all around use.

Still Loving My car after two Years

BMW with room and fun

Fantastic for fun and family!

Very happy


Meets a Lot of Needs

Sports car for families

Best car I've ever bought.

Hits and some misses

I'm loving this car

My BMW 428 convertible

I haven't had it too long, but no complaints!

Love my 428I

Great Car, LOUSY Company

Excellent car for demanding drivers

European Delivery Experience

Amazing car

Great car - but I dislike "I-Drive" electronics

Ideal and Realistic Bimmer

335 GT xdrive -- Love it.

BMW 3 Series with tons of useful space

Great Functional Car 

Totally love this car!

Very balanced car

435i xDrive - They got it right!

Try the 428i

I (almost) love everything about it.

Smooth coupe

2007 650i

6 series convertible

It's been fun

The most amazing car to drive

Dream Machine

Porsche 911 Carrera meets practicality! 

love my 645 coupe

Bugs in the Computer

Will drive this car for 10 years.

In for service

Best bang for your buck.

As always - Excellent!!

BMW 650i Convertible

Incredible value

The 650 Rocks!!

Love the car - Hate the headaches

Unreliable starts

The  best bmw ever 

the perfect car

6 Series - Buffed Elegance

Too much fun in the sun

Fun But ...

Love my Bimmer - But I'm a hands-on owner

Beware "the convertible roof"

This is the best BMW I have ever driven

Buy ONE

Best car

Value of iPod

I Love this Car!

The great hype

There are better options

EYE CATCHING

I love this car

The Best!

Sexy car

A Piece of Art but also A Piece of Junk

Old Age Friend

BMW 645 Convertible 

What a BEAST Machine

Wonderful car but too many problems!

Best Car I've Ever Owned

One week old

Fun everyday

the '07 ages well

Rear suspention problems

You will not be disappointed

This IS the Ultimate Driving Machine!!

Smooth and Powerful Convertible!

Unlike any other car....

Exceptional Car

No longer the 3 series - lost soul

Awesome

This car rocks -- if you spec it right!

Fantastic 340xi

Indeed not the Ultimate Driving Machine anymore

Convertable Top 

BMW 650i overrated

Over rated

Severe problems in manual mode

Mile eater

among the best in the world

love car, hate all its problems

It Sucks

Great 525i

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Good solid Car

Best Car Owned So Far!

One of the Best BMWs ever made

5 series eval

Fast and Solid

I love My 535

A fun car that never goes out of style

Sum greater than its parts

Timeless Beauty

Bimmerlover

BMW 330e Exceeds Expectations

First car!

1989 BMW e34 525ia

Nice 5 series

NATE'S Riew

I LOVE IT

Great car

Best Luxury Tuner

M500i xDrive !!!'

Superb Luxury Performance Sedan

2007 alpina b7

It will change your life.

So far so good!!

Be prepared for questions

Problems

Bad Styling

If you live in the Northeast do NOT buy this car

BEST SEDAN/SPORTS CAR

Motoring Marvel

Amazing 

Keeps on going

A real enthusiast car

Excellent 

Bimmer

Have to drive it to believe it!

BMW 325ix -Great value

My Awesome Car!

Best Car Ever

best car for the money

Just a great all around car.

I Love My Red Little Girl

One Loveable Car!

The best car I've ever owned!!!

It's an above average car

The Ultimate Driving Machine

Saved my life

I Love My 318is

Frugal fun in the sun

Like it almost as much as my 88 535is

Cheap but fun.

Ageless

My favorite car by my favorite manufacturer...BMW!

BMW review

Great handling, excellent value

BMW 318ti Hatchback

1997 Arctic Silver 328is

1997 328i Sedan 

A hoot

A lot of car for the money

The car is older and the driver is wiser

Good investment

Fun car!

Rock Solid German Tank. Slow Tank.

1995 BMW 318i Sedan 5spd review

This is the worse car I have ever owned

I have 240,000 miles.

7 years and counting

First Ultimate driving machine - Wow!

Buyer beware

major headache

Be smart, avoid the dealer.

5 month review

money pit

Why are there so many bad reviews?

Loving my 328Ci

It's amazing - but here are some issues.

BMW 318IS - The Ultimate Driving Machine

Dissappointed

SOOO expensive to repair

96 Bmw 328i

The Ultimate driving machine..its true

BEWARE FRAME Issue on all E46 models BEFORE You Buy

They don't come better at this price

Windows and everything else

one problem after another after 100K miles

323i update with 115k miles

'99 BMW - Great Car In Indy

I pay with a smile

323I with Sports Package

DC 328... pretty but costly....

A Bimmer for any season.

318's are very reliable

What a sweet ride!

Way exceeds Expectations

4-dr 325i

Love/Hate

BMW is the choice just need a warranty

Such a disappointment

Can't beat the styling

unexplainable feeling,  BMW!

Can't go wrong with a BMW

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

Wow!!!

Nice car but too many minor problems

Not Cheap to Own, But a Ton of Fun

BEST car I have owned!

I get why they're so notoriously popular

great car to have for a short time.

Most fun and comfortable to drive.

Good Reliable Car

Just Don't ... And Save Yourself Time, Money & Frustration

My 180,000 325I

1st timer

2001 BMW 3 Series

It's a beast with feminan figure

Looks Great, but looks can be deceiving.

Bmw e46 325i sedan auto

330i ZHP -  a sport sedan for the ages

So far great car. 85k miles

Great vehicle, for any occasion...

This car is like a needy but beautiful girlfriend

330 Ci Bought Based on Reviews Here

GREAT CAR!

Had it for 10 years and 150K miles later

Fabulous Buy

Found my DREAM CAR!!!!!!!

Ultimate Driving Machine

Performance from a Wagon

OVERRATED

Fun to Drive, Not Fun to Fix

2004 bmw 325i

I wanted to love this car.

Still going strong with 250K miles

Most Reliable BMW, 2004, 325i

Fun First Sport Coupe

I'm trying and I can't find a flaw

Best wagon I've ever owned - Hands down

04 330i with Performance Pkg

awsome

I love this car!!

If you want value, don't buy a BMW, lease it instead

E46 - The Good and the Bad

Never anything but BMW!!!!!!!

Love my Beamer baby!! =)

Ready to TRADE!

Second best car I have ever owned.

Best blend of sport and luxury

UMM why did i ever get rid of this CAR??? ZHP

RWD, 6spd and a backseat

So far !!!  Love the 325xi!!

2006 Break My Wallet 330i Sedan

06 325i - Current college student

First and Last

Great driving car

Use but still great

325ci Manual is much better than Auto

Fun first car

perception is the name of the game

Super Little Coupe!

I'm Hooked!

Read before you purchase

2006 330CI used purchase

It's great, when it works

Stays in the shop

75k miles later - I still love my car!

The life of your car is dependent upon the way you maintain it.

Very Solid Great Driving Car!

Fun To Drive But Very Poor Reliability - Automotive Engineer

The last of the true "ultimate driving machines"

Suburb driving machine

Love the car, but a little bit paranoid

Update:  Still looks great, performes well, but ?

Great Car but its all in the details

Luxurious, Sporty, Fun, Eye-catcher, Maintenance.

Fun to drive but frequent fixes

Love this car

Horrible

best car

Like new

05 330ci ZHP

fun but expensive to drive

Great used car

Not a problem 60k to Now 98k

Car great , reviewers bad

325 Pleasure

Overall, not many problems

325xi great car

Good dream went bad

Great Value as Used Car

Fun overshadows nagging problems

Wanted a Bimmah, Never looking Back

You get what to pay for

Just keeps getting better!

11 year old BMW 330xi

Honest Down To Earth Review

Radiator Issues

I should have taken advice the 1st time

Solid machine (Automatic)

Pretty & fun car but unreliable!

Fun to drive, repairs necessary when older

Love love love my bimmer!

Bennifets for returning service costomer

Great car, loving BMW

Great Car

Zippy car to drive!

Don't believe the naysayers

Awesome, super safe reliable car!!

Long time owner

Brilliant All weather sedan!

Great overall car.

I really loved this car

BMW 330XI Rules!

Great to drive but poor reliability

Great Car but some odd owners

Well served. Best car ever

Great

1998 BMW 328i sedan manual

The Absolute Perfect Machine

Love this Beemer

Bloddy Mangled Wreck

323i convertible : perfect SoCal car

328i

99 Convertibles Rock

Ultimate driving machine

New car

The Ultimate TRASHY Screaming Machine

Reliable

Still Great

Never Again!

Open your wallet

2002 BMW 325i

My Mother In Law Was Right.  Darn it.

Worst Car I've Ever Owned

2002 BMW 330i Sport/Premium - 5 speed

2002 BMW 330xi

First 90 days

Amazing

Thrill to drive

Best Series 3 Ever

Fun car but watch out for maintenance

I will keep this car for many years.

Simple Joy

SPORTS CAR QUALITY BUILT

Cant ask for much more

One of the Best Cars Ever Made!!!

1999 BMW 323I

Great old second car

Best Car Ever!

Best. first car. ever.

Good Until...

1998 BMW 318ti Sport

Very Reliable Owner Must Have Basic Mechanic Skills

210,000 miles on factory clutch and counting...

Budget BMW

Its True (the Ultimate Driving Machine) 

Excellent car

295k

Great little coupe

Soooo fun to drive! Even with 200,000mi!

review 328is

Snookered by the ads

Best Car I Ever Owned

Truly is the Ultimate Driving Machine

Best Sport Coupe

After 15 years - still a great car

absolute maintenance horror story

BEST CAR 

Perfect

1993 325i 4dr

fun but pricey

1995 325i Bimmer Sedan from Japan

Best BMW below $5000!

Too Expensive to keep long term

Best Car I've Ever Owned

My Dream Car & Best Car I Ever Owned!!!

318is Fun

Long Term Bimmer

Fun Forever

'93 325is

Still a great car

Bmw 3 Series

BMW is the best.

102000 miles and still going strong

My car saved me! ...and other stuff

Bulletproof

German build quality

Riding on Rails

Drive It Like You Stole It! 

watch out for the factory defect.

collectable classic

Genuinely fun but not for everyone

My "TOY"

Great Date Car

Better than any jap 4 cylinder

Good Fun Doesn't Come Cheap

Old Girl Keeps Ticking

318is

Great car, but costly repairs

1993 BMW

Great car!

love it

sss

Ultimate Driving Machine

1992 BMW 3 Series

Pure Excellence

Hole in the wallet

I'm the owner, the only owner.

Ups at downs at 215k miles

Owned this car for 15 years

Not Bad

Great Value...

My First BMW

Amazing car

BMW 328 IC Convertible

not the greatest

What a car!`

My $2000 per year wallet drainer

Good car...some minor problems

Great fun if you don't mind the repairs 

Have enough cash for numerous repairs

Great and funny coupe

What a good car

A Car that make you GRIN

A great car

Long Term Review

I was in shock up until writing this Review 

I'll own this car forever

First car

Hidden Costs Of BMW Ownership

I'm never selling this car!

Santa got it right

Joy to own

BMW fans unite

BMW for life

BMW 328ic, a very well made car

Great car!

Love this car

Great Car

e30's Rule!

Amazing car

Have Enjoyed This Car So Much

Good Stuff

Ultimate Tanning Machine!

Like I would like it.

Cross Country Drive

Affordable luxury car

My New Baby

New Classic BMW

Best Value for a Fun Car

Cabrio 4 ever

1994 325i convertible is awesome!

Love my ride!

Sweet

Best 3 Series ever made

Great all-arounder

Ditto, find one, buy one, 1994 318 ic

Best Auto Ever

Great Car, needs more power

used value

Wonderful Car

THIS IS THE BEST BMW 3 SERIES!

My Fun Secret

Oldie but Goodie (update)

BMW 321 Convertible - 1990

sweet & sour

Possibly the greatest car ever made ... If you know how to drive 

A practical beauty with a lot of zazz!

Amazing, Amazing car.  I'll miss it.

Very solid car and fun to tool around in!

The car of the decade

Run Flats ruin the ride

Picking right options is key

BMW has to stand behind their errors!

When pretty is not enough.

The Ultimate Trap Machine

Most Unreliable Car I Ever Owned

Driver's and Mechanic's dream

2008 BMW 335i, Transmission died at 84k mi

BW328i Great Car But Repairs are Expensive!

Fun to drive when not in shop

For a used car, a great value.

The Ultimate Repair Machine

Great combination of sportiness and luxury

The best car I have ever owned

ULTIMATE DRIVING MACHINE!!! 

Run flat tires

Change the tires.

Great Convertible

Very Pleased Thus Far

Still the Best

Expensive but reliable

BMW 2008 328xi - got rid of it at 104k miles

Best Car I've Owned

What exactly is German Engineering?

Wanted to Love It

Perfection.

Great fun to drive

My first, but definitely not last, BMW

Fun car, fear costly maintenance down the road

Lots of fun. But often not working?

VROOM!

Follow-up review after 17K miles

3 Strikes you're out!!

335i AWD

Good - Not Perfect

Great Improvement ~ Fun to drive

Drives Like a Dream

M3's little brother

Brilliant BMW 328i convertible

The most uncomfortable car ever

Love my 320

Customer service

Oh Hail The 2012 3 Series!

Good thing she's pretty, 'cause she sure is stupid

2013 BMW 328i xdrive

Jack of all trades- master of none!

Great in Minnesota Winters

My 1st BMW

A Great Value for What you Get= Awesome ride with an all around set of features

I wish I got the wagon instead

Not worth the 58K... I HATE THIS CAR

Kid and family friendly!

Great car around

Sunroof Wind Noise Affects Comfort

Beautiful Car Inside & Out, Unique, Comfy

Great car ! 

Calling it free service is a gimmick

BMW

I'm very happy with this coupe

Wow - 335d is a silent rocket

Love it!

In its own class

Best of both worlds

Value missing - value still comes up short

Get ready to do everything twice....

$60K+ Fun to drive, but has some interior rattles

Not Worth for the Price

Best of all worlds BMW offers!

Extremely Happy with the Diesel

Diesel Yes

Best CAr

2010 BMW 335i

My Dream Come True

Nice car with some issues

Solid, Powerful & Comfy

First BMW. Now, I am flying, not driving

It's all about the Torque

Fun to drive when it was in my possession

Boy oh boy!

2010 BMW 3 Series Diesel 335d Sedan (3.06L 6cyl Turbo diesel )

Expected Higher Quality

Best car I have owned

Totally love my GT!!

My Mach 5

Fabulous

328IX wagon - fear the repair costs

Bye Bye BMW

Don't invest in this vehicle

Awesome car if you buy the base model

First BMW

328d - a BMW with the mpg of a geek box

BMW FAN

Probably the best car i've owned!

Gotta have it (?)

Woth the price!

BMW has officially gone "mainstream" and lost it

Love it with a few minor complaints

Too bad

No one talks about the 320.....

Perfection is attainable

Happy NC driver

Just about perfect for where we are in life

Daddy like!

Excellence Throughout

Sport Wagon- lovin' it.

Sometimes new isn't better

Update on Gotta Have It?

Disappointed with Comfort

Mixed feelings

Base suspension is awful

Extremely disappointed

Adding to my 3//17/2012 review

So far so good

True sports sedan

2013 328i

The car they warned you about. They were WRONG!

Great Entry Level BMW

I like my older 3 more now

first German luxury and satisfied

Turbo Out at 47K Miles 

Love the performance, hate the operating system

Not As Good As My Old 3 Series

A great balance of sportiness, luxury and value

Steering Wheel Vibration

surprisingly good for what is essentially an entry-level, detuned 328i

The Good, The Bad, and The Unexplainable

Bmw 335 xi

Driving Precision and Transformer Features to Wow 6 Year Olds

Sexy and powerful

Great car, but could use a few improvements.

BMW has its mojo back

Good but not good enough

2014 328D WAGON - M Sport Package

Fuel sipping fury!

2014 BMW 328d

Wow!! The MPG is no joke!!

A little bit of luxury!

2014 CPO Elite 328ix Sportwagon

A small "Abrams Tank from BMW

Great car (with one irritating flaw)

Finally a diesel that matches a gas engine

328d is great BUT!!!

Great Car for the "Mature" Hot Rodder!

Extremely costly once your warranty expires!!!

Great Car

Do not fear the 4 Cylinder!

Sold me on BMW

Ignore the Bad Bimmer Reviews - A Lot To Enjoy

Truly a driver's car

Wanted the Experience

48,000 miles on 2009 328i xDrive

Potential to be a really great car.

So far, so very, very good

2014 328D Xdrive

Sportwagon - Child Seat Comments included!

First BMW

Fun Vehicle with Outstanding MPG

Very Happy with thhe 328iX

So happy we chose this car

Close to the ideal all around car

To New York and back 51mpg!

Twelve thousand miles and in the shop again.

Diesel Exhaust Tech not ready for prime time

The most fun you can have with four wheels

This IS a nice car

Not all 3-series are the same. 335i is king

335D 2011

Almost Perfect...

A True 4 door sport car!!

Major Issues

Where did the room go?

No Car Is Perfect

Falling out of love

Bent rod, needs a new engine

First Time BMW Owner

Why wouldn't everyone love exactly this kind of car!

2011 328i Xdrive 

It died on me

2011 3 Series Rocks

Cool 328i M Sport 1 year update

In love with this car

DANG, DIESEL!

Fun Car

Every 2Dr Sports Coupe should be this good

BMW

A true BMW Marvel

Test drive before you buy!

2016 BMW 435ix convertible test

Possibly the best convertible "sporty" car today!

428i gran coupe 2016

Love BMWS - First Hardtop Convertible

Estoril blue beauty

Ultimate driving machine - for real

Nice Car Turns into a Nightmare!

Fast&Great Handling

Sun! Breezes! Fun!

Second 4 series in 8 month

Lots of fun in a ride!

Currently the Best Car on the Planet

My only spoiled child treated me like a bad parent

Best all around car for the money

335i sedan

Love My NEW 328i Coupe

Simply the best bmw!

Don't buy it if you want an econobox

I've fallen in love with my BMW.  

Expensive to Maintain

BMW does it again

Plastic engine parts - really?

Nightmare

Best in class

2007 328xi (automatic)

Dinan Tuned 335i Convertible.

07 BMW 335I Coupe 

BMW Gone down hill :( sold thank God!!!

The Ultimate Driving Myth

Worst car I've owned

Absolutely the best 2 door coupe 

great car as the first owner for bmw

Great car

Entry level luxury plus sporty performance

Everything you would ever want in a sedan and more

Love my beemer

BMW figured it out

Competing with pro review on 340ix

Awesome car

Wish this was the car I thought I was buying

LOVE THIS CAR

Fun to Drive!

Diesels Rule!

Third BMW... lease it instead

BMW 3 Number 3

Fantastic Car

Best 3 series, under M3

Quick fun little car.

Test drive this before you buy a 328i

Great performance, but very expensive.

It's about time BMW makes standout

1992 525i

Excellent choice !

1992 525 BMW

Best Car I Ever Owned

My BMW 525i

pieces of a dream

10 years

A Fantastic Car!

awesome

Best of all!

Best car I've ever owned

Cool Ride

Keep the dealer on speed dial.

I just didn't know...

Now I understand ...

Best Car of My Life

one excellent car

Smooth as silk, though expensive to keep

RW 92 525i

A Bad Year

Great car like all needs TLC

Loved this car

Luv my Bimmer

Paying Tribute to my 5 Series

What A Automobile

1991 blk on blk 525i beamer - Luv it!

E-34 --- The best kept secret !

535im

The Ultimate Driving Machine

An Inexpensive Luxery

Awesome Vehicle

Billy's Machine on Wheels

Spectacular car

Comfortable, practical with great seats

no surpeises

Love this car

BMW 535 GT

A 7 series with a 5 series price tag

Great all around car

WOW.  In a word-AMAZING.  

The ultimate driving machine get the car

535igt

Love My 5GT!

Great All Around Car

Ugly!

Had 550i GT 5 days, In shop 12 days

Awesome

Best Car I have ever owned

Perfect vehicle

BMW 535iGT

Wonderful

Perfect Car

Hot 4 door hatch

Best in Class

Choose your favorite songs and never hear them

4-Series X-Drive Gran Coupe has it all

Nicep

Stylish/Elegant

bullet proof

A grocery getter for those who love cars

This is th one!

Old school fun

Very excited

Love My 5-series Touring

Great value great running condition

My red concorde

I expected more

Too early to tell

This is the one

Investing in the past pays in the Future

Aged very well

More than a grocery getter

1993 bmw

93 BMW 525i

Great car under 70k mi

I love this car

Great ride despite high maintenance cost

love my 540

Black on Beige Sport/Premium

Been a great car

what a great car

Great car

My favorite car...ever.

Bavarian Bliss

Nothing but a Beamer!

Fast and is Comfortable

One year anniversary

525i Sport Premium Package

Truly the Ultimate Driving Machine

High-maintenance 

Good commuter so far

Never Again!

Not too impressed!!!

It really is the Ultimate Driving Machine

545i w/sport suspension 2 yr impressions

Fun Car

Happy all around

On top of E-Class!

lovin it

Fun to drive, but unreliable

UBER WAGON

Buy It!

Trouble Free-Call it the Intimidator!

Fun to drive

Awesome ride without a beverage

Open your wallet

Suprised at the poor quality from BMW

Desert Driver

Silver Beauty Aging Gracefully

Good car

The best sports wagon you can ever own!!

Dream Car!

BMW Driver for life!

Last car I'll own

Love this car but

Great alternative to the SUV

ULTIMATE DRIVING MACHINE

Brace yourself 

Awesome German Engineering

Fragile buyer beware

Loves it

Here is why the BMW 2005 530i is the Ultimate car

Brake Booster failure with 53K miles

Alabama Review

Great Car, but not Cheap to maintain

Im depressed

Fun to drive, not without issues

Buyer Beware!!

I love my 5 Series but not the major issue

Great Car

I-drive (CCC system) is an issue

Stay away from 545i

Doesn't age well

Super Car, with Problems

First BMW

Recent Convert to BMW

Family Sedan Muscle Car!!

Love my car

The best BMW yet

Home Run

Couldn't be happier

Excellent car

Great drive

My first Bimmer

Please read this if you are even considering buying a 535

Tires, Tires and More Tires

Get back to basics

Could Be Better

Not a BMW anymore

The End of a Beautiful Relationship

2011 BMW 528 

Good riddance

BUYER BEWARE!!!

Quick, nimble, refined and GREAT highway mileage

RunOnFlat. Stay Away.

BMW Run-Flat Tires, Less Than Optimal

Buyer beware!!

2011 535xi = Worst Car Owning Experience

Transmission Problems

Best car I have ever owned

BMW 550i review

Born to Run

1st BMW - I'm hooked!

Awesome!

Not the Ultimate Driving Machine

2009 535i  x drive  6 speed manual

New 528i xdrive owner

Hunk of junk

Ultimate driving Machine

BMW xi 2010

2010 BMW 528i

3 engine breakdowns already

Unreliable, even new

Wonder Machine

buyer beware!

No BMW USA Service Support

Hesitation Problems driving me crazy!

No homelink garage door opener in $50k car

550ix amazing improvement

No Substitute

528xi

Always can be better

Joy to drive

2010 550i M Sport - It growls

oh the problems i've seen

My Last BMW

New 535i x-drive

UNRELIABLE!!

UPDATE since my last review (3/16/13)

What a car!

Unreliable

Not the Ultimate Driving Machine

Love this car

Too Good To Be True

2010 BMW 550i M Sport SAT

@6 months

BMW 535i is a wonder machine

550i with M-Sport Package

First BMW, won't be my last

Fuel System 

Realistic review for people who want to buy a used 535i

Are you willing to trade the good for the bad?

Very good & getting better

Worst Car I've Ever Owned

2007 BMW 525xi

No help from BMW 

Sublime

Great car even with no options

550i-The Ultimate Driving Machine 

Exterior molding is of very low quality

First Time BMW Owner

My favorite car

Fun to Drive! 2007 530XI (6speed manual)

New to BMW

My 4th BMW and the best one!

Great car and great value (if purchased used)

Must own one of these cars, if you buy it used

Great looking car with performance that matches

I feel like Ari Gold in this car

Great Wagon

Long time BMW owner

530xi

Prepare to cough up tons of coin.

a little pain for lots of fun gain

Love my 550

The BEST wagon EVER

Uber Wagon

Nice Luxury Car (:

Doesn't leave much to desire

Great Car! 

My BMW 535XI Nightmare 

My 2008 535i

Great Performance Sport Sedan

A Great Car-Almost

Big bucks German bad transmission cheap parts

the ultimate family wagon

'06 550i sport

A whole different level

1st time BMW owner-bad experience

Too Many Problems

The Dream Wedding of Vehicles...

SAAAAAADDDD BMW owner

Fun to drive, poor reliability & expensive to fix

I might have gotten a lemon, but a money pit

Discouraged love for my BMW

Overcomplicated & Unreliable

No issues . . . maybe I'm lucky?

BMW 528XI 2008

poor reliability & expensive to fix

The best I have driven

truly a driving machine

The best car in the world

Great handling - electronic bugs

This is not what you want to buy

Unload it before the warranty expires !

I GOT THE RIGHT ONE, BABY!!!

Lemon

All eyes...

1st  5 Series

99 528i

BMW 528i

Phenom - Best Car I've Had

Best car in the world

Bargain sports car

Trade it before it goes out of warranty

Fantastic Car 

The Ultimate Driving Machine - not just a slogan!

100,000 miles

Money pit

2004 BMW 545i (AUTO) amazing quality, amazing car!

DON'T BUY ONE

Great car but unexpected problems

Feels like wind on wheels

Worst car I've ever owned. Beautiful looking but leaves you stranded.

Love / Hate

I hate that I love this car so much!

It's a trap!

Buy the manual

Best certifed used car I have ever owned

Sport wagon for everyone

Great Car

2001 525i review

BMW... There is no other.

Passion To Drive

Good car

Classic manual E39. One of the last true cars.

Like this car a lot, saloon model?

Not your usual boring wagon!

Very Happy

Wondering which way to go???

My 1st and probably last BMW

I JUST LOVE THIS CAR!

marvelous

A Keeper...

Absolutely Fantastic !!!!

Reliable 

MY 540ia

I've loved this one

BMW = Bring My Wallet!

BMW 525i Response

The greatest car on the road!!!

2003 BMW 540i 

Nice 2003 BMW 525i 5 speed.

A Fine Sedan

The First Four Months

540i M-Sport (where do I go from here?)

A Man's Car

Transmission problem

Fabulous Car

Great car

Executive Experss

Future Classic

The Ultimate Nightmare

Poor reliability offsets driving thrills

One Great Used Car!

Great  Sedan

My first, and last

One of the best cars I ever had!

528's Are BAD NEWS

BMW 530 past 60,000 miles

Got to LOVE IT!

Great car, if you ignore reliability

Solid Car

Best car I've ever had

They Don't Make Them Like This Anymore

Das Auto!!

164K and still a true road car!

I cannot give this car up-just too good. 

168K and still going strong!

I'll Drive It Another 10 Years

Buying this car was my greatest decision

Beautiful and classy, but temperamental

My horrible BMW 528i ordeal

BMW 528i

E39 best  5 series of all time!

Shame on BMW

Bugs Still Not Worked Out

Reliability or Performance

Buy One if You Can

Top notch car

My Bimmy !!

This car rocks!

The Ultimate Machine (under statement)

Best BMW so far

I love this car

This car is great

95 540 great car

BMW Fun

Great car, classic styling

The Ultimate Driving Machine

I LOVE this car! but...

It is a classic

An excellent veichle

Who'd consider this an economy car - ME!

Fun but costly

Stay with the E39

Money Pit

best bmw

2000 BMW 528iA

Not your typical wagon

This car made me a wagon lover

95 525i sedan

1995 BMW 5 Series

Fun and luxury

1995 BMW 530i

Great car for the buck.

Do I need a new mechanic?

1995 540i BEST BMW CAR EVER!!! no nikasil problem.

95 540il my kind of car

My baby will be ten soon

Looks/drives great for a 16 year old daily driver

What a car should be

Fun car, i love it

Poor engine design

A sad day 

Nikasil engine is a killer

King

Best car I ever drove (so far)

1995 530i

Amazing to Drive - Extremely Unreliable

540i StationWeapon

Lots of things to fix at 146K miles

2000 540i sport

The best car I ever had. Period.

By far the Best Sedan I've ever owned

3woodAl speaks

The good, the bad, and the Ugly

Best Car I've ever owned

Gotta be one of the BEST cars in the World !..

The best of the best

Great car, fast, fun, reliable

BMWs are built to last

Love my 525i

Yea!!! it was worth it.

Good Solid Performer

Performance/cost to own=unbelievable

Peace of mind

Mixed feelings

PRESTIGE DOES NOT A CAR MAKE!

Almost perfect

BMW E34 530i

540i reliability

Great Used Car

Still Owns the Road!

The 1994 530i V-8 Auto..In Alpine White

Got lucky

Built like a Tank

Great old car

525i a great reliable car

Distorted rear window images

The 528I is definitely not a sports sedan

Best in its class

Amazing power and mileage with 535d!!

Beautiful Car

Mr. almost got killed by BMW faulty traction contr

What a beauty

Ultimate experince

Sophisticated, Fun, and FAST

Great performance and technology!

Beautiful Car

What a Kick

Can't believe it is mine

Subtle changes make a difference

Headsup Fabulous

640i review

BMW Certified Program means, well, Nothing

Wonderful combination of attributes

Awesome

Disappointing

Fun to drive but burns oil and idles rough

The 2012 BMW 650i is UNSAFE to drive in a thunderstorm.

2012 BMW 650 M Sport

Thoroughly Impressed!

2010 6er Germany

Get the Convertible! 

Buy the best- my 15th BMW

Stealth

Black beauty review

In a class of its own

Flagship 650i lives up to the title

The beast ride, great value for the money

Head turner

Only had it a 13 days...now in the shop

2013 535I - Great Car - Fun to drive - but...

BMW 528i x drive

Good But Not Great

Merry Christmas to ME

2013 550i

Piece of cheap junk

Update 4 years 55k miles

Why All the Complaints?

Good luck if you have to TOW or Service it.

Great Car!

Adult Rollercoaster

You Won't Regret it!

Fun to Drive

650 convertible 2008

Born to run

Performance Hybrid Winner

Awesome Car!

Fatal Flaw in Windshield and Mileage

First impressions - 500 miles driven - wonderful so far

six month review

I love this car!

Diesel engine without the noise

Radio

Great car

Car of my dreams

A BMW Boat...

BMW 6 Series

Makes me happy on every drive

Head turner

bmw black beauty

Happy with this efficient performance car

By far best car so far

Solid Performer

Great Car

Power & Luxury

Great car!

A Quiet and Powerhouse Diesel

My First BMW

Shock and Awe!

Love this car!

Seven in a row

2015 bmw 535i m sport space grey

Best Car Ever

Best of both worlds

Very Dissapointed with BMW 535D

BMW quality stands out

My first Bimmer

Disatified Owner

Beat my expectations!

I'm actually amazed

This vehicle is a $60K joke!

Wish I could return it

WOW

Most boring BMW I've ever owned...

unleash the kracken!

Best comfort and handling car IMO

5 Major Failures in 50K miles

My 3rd BMW in 6 years

impressive

Ultimate Driving Machine, Not Ultimate Warranty

Great car but different from past BMWs

My first BMW

Should Have Kept My Mazda

My Second

Run Flat Tires will Fail

Love my M Sport 535i

If you choose the 528i...

Best overall Sports Sedan

I love this vehicle!

Easy Rider

poor gas milage

73 year old guy who has owned many cars

A Beautiful Classic, But Handling Could be Tighter

Leaves the MB-E350 in the Rear View Mirror

2016 528 I (The Best in it's Class)

Drive the xDrive 550i!

What A Beauty

BMW 650I Gran Coupe 2013

640i Life

Ultimate 650

V12 powered 750iL

Mike's 750IL

Great car

BMW 735il

BMWi

Total Winner

91 for the money

Total Winner

The best 6 ever

The last great six-one of the best ever!

Driving Machine

Best value on the used market

Classic Styling

Wonderful Auto

Excellent

A rare luxury Sedan thats underated

Excellent Overall Sedan

A Great Car:  For a while

Good acceleration

Wow factor!

Good but Expensive

my BMW

Be aware of engine trouble

just the best

Ronbimmer

Absolutely love it!

Support your local 740

I love my Big Grey Bomber

Still an Awesome Driving Machine!

High maintenance

A Rocket

High maintenance

A great and timeless BMW!

Excellent Value For the Money

Fine leather (reqs reg. care) everywhere

Worst mistake I ever made

A great car but watch out!

Love this car

Comfort for the body and soul

Best car I've ever owned.

94 740iL

Recomend this car to anyone

a car built the way it aughta be

BEST CAR EVER!?!

BMW's  former flagship still competetive

1990 750iL - Wow

best car yet

25 YEAR OLD 735

Twice is a charm

Built to last

greg

It's the ultimate driving machine

1994 740i stay away

James bought a lemon

Buyer Beware of BMW

Not Up the Mark

Love & Hate

Excellent overall car! Very reliable.

Rocket on 4 wheels

Wonderful Automobile

My 2c

Love Hate Relationship

1995 BMW 740i

Excellent Car with minor issues.

one of the greatest car

Great Car!

Exceptional luxury car in every way.

Endless money pit

Awesome

Hate to love it

1998 740iL

Don't keep it Past Warranty Period

Excellent Car

Second best way for long distance

Best car I ever owned

Fun to drive, but mostly SAFE

Can't go wrong with this vehicle

BMW 740il

Bills Beemer

love it, but.....

Best 13K I've ever spent

Simply Amazing

One of my favorite cars

The Best & the Last?

Best bargin on the road!!

"the ultimate driving machine

Love/Hate

Boss Car

bad deal

This is a bad car

2002 BMW 7 Series (Good and Bad)

owner

the opposite of an S-Class

Impressive but still a ways to go!

Owned it for 12 days

The best

I love my BMW

BMW's Flagship Sedan

Truly comfort and true luxury

Never again

Best Sedan on the road.

Transmission failure

Buy it- you will love this car!

Best car to drive

Truly 'The Ultimate Driving Machine'

It's a Love Hate

2003 BMW 760 LI

Col. Klink Makes Cars

Love my 745Li

My worst nightmare!

A great car!

STAY AWAY

dont buy one new

Love It!

In the shop for the first 30 days

Bought it used but.

Great car, insanely bad radio quality

Worst Car I ever had

Great Car - Better Than S500

I like it!

Great car, but too complicated

Much better purchase than previous audi

Beware of night vision

Best in its class 

Best BMW 7 yet.

Nice to be driven - nice to drive

BMW 750i - Great Car 

Am I reliving 2002?

Amazing

dont buy this car

Great Looking on the outside

my BMW 750Li xDrive a nightmare

BMW 7 Quality Horrible!

Stay away

Run Away

Best in the world

My Dream Car

I'm very disappointed

BMW and safe driving

2010 BMW 750 Li with M Sport Package

Superb

Everything you would expect and more!

The best sedan I have driven

Brilliant Car

Luxury at its finest

Great car

Awesome 740LI

I like my Bimmer

Great blend of luxury and performance

Exceptional Car

2008 750Li Amazing!

Disappointed

I love it, but

Nice Car!

Worst car ever

Beemer lovin

Perfect in every way!

Understated Luxury

750 Problems/IDrive failures

Fast, Great Handling, Reliable Car

Safety Concerns

Still too complicated

Transmission Issues!!! Do Not Buy

Classic Evolution

You can't go wrong

750li

Engine oil level

I love my 760 Li - when it runs properly

Perfect car, really

Nice but issues

Good Car

Twin turbo 6 cylinder m7

Had it all

FUN

750i with Sport Package

Piper's BMW

750 Li

I love my 760i

The Nightmare Continues...

I love the BMW 750Li 

So here we go...with a CPO

No complaints

Found but not lost?

excellent car but tire problems

Poor Interior 

BMW 2011 750LI xdrive

What a waste of money!!!!

Best Luxury Sedan of the Year

2009 7-series impression

The Best Drive Ever

Ultimate Driving Machine

Beauty and the Beast

"Without a doubt the best car yet"

The Full Package

09 750LI not a dependable car

Land yacht

Putting my new 750i through its paces

BMW builds another fantastic 7 Series!

2009 BMW 750i

European Delivery

Interior Design Needs Major Improvement

Great car.

The best new car experience ever

Critics need to calm down

A real driving machine

Ultimate Driving Machine

Great exterior looks but bad interior

I hate this car

The 

BMW 760LI

disappointment

I LOVE MY BIMMER

It will get you there, but wont' bring you back!

Transmission Issues!!! Avoid if possible

Love the car ..... Hate the maintenance

TRANSMISSION PROBLEMS!!! BEWARE!!!

Florida

Better love the loaner

Best car

Thank you BMW!!

The Ultimate Driving Machine...IReally!

Lemon

going back to mercedes

King of the road

My 745Li

back from mercedes

Awesome Car

3 years with no problems

BMW 745 is an amazing car!

What are they talking about

Impressive Car

I miss my 2001 740 

nice car

Liked all the loaner cars!

Great Car

DON'T BUY THE  7 SERIES

A real road car

Best 7 ever

Great Cars!!!

WOW

Ride is Tops

A Rock with 4 doors

Bad Investment

No BMW Support

BMW745li won't go in gear after its driven

Initial disappontment

Great car, but very unreliable

Just sold the car

PIERO ORIOLO

Driving my 745Li

Owner review

Intimedated by the i Drive ?

Amazing Driving Experience

2016--This BMW 7 Series is The King of the Road!!!

awesome

"TOP GUN BMW"

Big Mechanical Waste

Looks Can Be Deceiving. 

What's not to like!

I can't believe

7th Wonder?

Unsatisfied Customer

love/hate --  sold it and bought an acura

Had enough!

Most comfortable and powerful Car!

Bad Experience, Worst car to buy

Best luxury sedan on the planet

Too fun not to drive

The Best Car I have even owned

Wish They Had Not Changed

Great Car

Fabulous Flagship

Awesome driving machine

1999 740IL

My 750iL CAA1

Flagship BMW

First BMW

excellent car

Nice Ride

my dream car

Love the ride, but hope it lasts

World greatest car

INCREDIBLE ULTIMATE MACHINE

2001 BMW 740iL

It Is the Best BMW Ever

The true Ultimate Driving Machine

Best 7-series ever

Junk to Hunk

Still an Ultimate Driving Machine

110K miles of first owner experience.

1999 750iL - 30 month review

Most fun/value among used luxury cars

Lucky

Exhilarating 740i M sport package

U gotta get one to understand

Excellent Value

BMW Flagship Car, a luxury ICON worth owning!

The Ultimate Driving Machine!

Love our Bimmer

BMW 7 Series The Ultimate Starship

97 740iL

Piece of junk

This Used to be my Dream Car, became a nightmare..

Best in its class

THE BEST CAR ON THE ROAD

CAR OF MY DREAMS, that can also keep me awake at night

Love it/Hate it

This is a car to haul dignitaries around.

Seriously Amazing car. I love this car <3

Finally we own an excellect automobile

Wonderful car

1997 Bmw 740iL Luxury Luxury And Performance

Ryan's 2000 740i

Fun car to drive  but it is no Lexus

Ricks 2000 bmw 740i sport

Say Hello to Deferred Maintenance!

Update 
my black7

The best BMW ever.

750iL - Simply the Best

2000 740i Sport

best 4 door sedan you can buy for the money.

The Ultimate Texas Driving Machine

VERY Expensive to Maintain

2000 740IL Cosmos Black on Black

Exceeded Expectations

A Class of Excellence

Not what you'd think

My 2000 740il

Great car for those who appreciate the dynamics, general drivers may want to steer clear. 

2000 BMW 740iL

awesome car just not after 150k miles

Gotta Buy One

Great car

Care Will Be Rewarded

Early Opinion

V12 in the family

2nd 750iL

WHAT A CAR !!!!

Pricey but worth it

A Dream To Drive

18 years and counting "simply the best"!

Know the car

Most comfortable car ever

The Flagship Driving Machine

Best Car in the World

Fantastic car that oozes quality

Expensive Car To Own

Great family car with plenty of power

hmm

The Good, Bad & The Ugly

Want a convertible, but can't let go!

Amazing reliable first car

Classy, Stylish, Head Turner.....Still

Yes, it is the ultimate driving machine!

What A Ride!

Carrier shot

The Ultimate DRIVING Machine, YES!

The Ultimate "7" driving machine

Walk Don't Run

Run don't walk from this car

A nice experience with my 740i

Objective Review From A BMW Enthusiast

1995 740i engine problem

I love this car!

Enjoyable Ride

Do Your Homework

bmw 750i m sport package

Great car once it's imported from Germany

Great car for long road trips

great car however horrible tires

New 2016 BMW 740i

BMW 750 is the worst car I have ever owned.

750ix

Second BMW 7 series in our family!!

horrible customer service

2012 750iX

Velvet Rocket is turned into a beast!

A sleeper rocket

great car, bad tires

7 on nitro

My Second 7 Series and Still Loving it!

Great Performance; Lackluster Interior

Truly An Ultimate Driving Machine

the most annoying POS

great car to drive if you are a car person

After 15 months, still as stunning as ever!

OMGGGGGGG!

The Executive over the M Sport

2013 BMW 750i x-drive

M235xi--interior is a let down

Massively Underwhelmed

My favorite

Blast to drive

Love @ 235

.5 Seconds Slower than my 2007 335i

Dissapointing

A fine car with an idiosyncratic suspension

Love the Styling

Pocket rocket

I bought this car to drive for fun

Great toy

BMW as it used to BE

The M235i xDrive is an absolutely Favotite Car

WOW! Hold On!

Fun to drive.

M Performance Icon--M235i

Almost "GREAT". Whynot?

Very decent

This little car is unbelievable!

Outstanding Coupe!

A BMW that actually performs like a true BMW

Am I the only one?

Awesome is the only way to describe the BMW (F23)!

Avoid water in your BMW

Update on BMW 2 series

M performance with luxury

2015 M235I MSport Convertible

2015 228i (6-speed Manual)

Great Car

Muscle car with split personality.

Fun and Luxurious Sports Car

Far superior to my Porsches.

Performance Chapel Hill rules!

Do It All M240i xDrive

Great Car So Far

No active safety whatsoever!

Awesome Car!

Adaptive Cruise Control issues with 2016 BMW 740i

Only on day 2....but my 4th BMW

Hold on that Lexus!

A car by any other name isn't

The best 740i ever

Not the ultimate driving machine

FIRST BMW OWNER

Gimmicky disappointment

BMW 7 Series

great car

Great Car

HAD THE CAR A TOTAL OF 2 DAYS IN 2 WEEKS

2016 750i xDrive (G12 Platform)

Lemon!!

Best car I've owned - so far...

BEST CAR I'VE EVER OWNED OR DRIVEN

8 months... Still love it!

The best car I have ever owned

Electric Luxury Roadster...the ELR is all that

Best car I've ever owned!

2016 Cadillac ELR

Problems with transfer gearbox

PLEASE PLEASE DON'T BUY THIS HEAP

I'm IMPRESSED

Not Pleased

IT IS A CADILLAC  !!!

What's the deal?

Know Your Car!!

SRX

SRX 

I love my SRX. 

Never thought I'd hate a Cadillac

Maintenance costs make it not worth it.

Don't be lured by luxury!

Big Disapointment

Cadillac SRX 8

Long time wanted!

A Smashing Looker

From a 2004 to a 2008

Awesome Family Vehicle

Pleasantly surprised

quite a few problems

Progressive Body Style, Cadillac Superiority

2005 SRX

How to lose $16,000 in 30 days.

Nothing but trouble

Cadillac 2005 SRX

Five+ years out

I'm 62 years old and worse car I've ever owned

Srx 2005

I love my Caddy

Scary

last of its kind

Dark knight would love driving this car!

The CTS-V Coupe can never be "Out-Classed"!

Best looking car

A Heavenly Ride!

Cts-v Good and bad

V...onderful to Drive

Ultimate Pleasure

Wow

This car is outstanding

GM vs. the world...and GM won

Drive This Car and then....

Hyper -Performance

To each their own

Love this car

Don't overlook an SRX

Love my SRX crossover

love my srx

Lemon

Owner since 2009

amazing ride

What a surprise!

Wow! My dream car

What an awesome suprise!

Best Car I've Owned

SRX w/20' Sport Package - runs great, looks great

My New Vehicle!  

Traded in our 2006 Lexus 400h

Great Vehicle, Bad Transmission

Looking good at a price.

Sleek, Spacious, SRX

Great Ride

Great  Ride

Excellent car

Awesome and Rare Sport Edition

Great Performance.but will not repeat

Great SUV

Beware

SRX

Terrible In Snow

More than just transportation

For a old car it runs pretty good me.

Long-term Evaluation

First time truck owner

Not My Father's Cadillac

Great Road Trip Car...

A Very Comfortable Drive

Stay Away

Great value, great service

My Cadillac Station Wagon

A Great Station Wagon

Disappointed

I love this vehicle!

Cadillac hits a home run with the SRX!

2007 SRX - One Great SUV!

Ultimate Cadillac 6cyl SUV

Electrical Issues

Great Car !!!!

Better than the new one

"Disapointed"

It's simply the best

Great Handling! Great Ride!

Psychological lift at the end of the day

No problems

VERY UNHAPPY WITH PURCHASE

SRX puts the Sport in SUV

This is a great car

2006 Cadillac SRX Don't waste your money

Best Car I Have Ever Owned

All in One

GREAT CAR

ELR beats Tesla S hands down!!

ELECTRIC LUXURY ROADSTER

I still love it after a year

The Ultimate Commuter Car

Wow - Get One If You Can Find One

This was the one

Great used car for the $$$

Last Cadillac for me.

Love My SRX

Sigma Blue

Save your $, this car's a lemon 

I tried to love it...

More Than a AWD Station Wagon

4 month review:

Not the Best in the World

Would buy another

What a piece of 

An Example why GM needs bailout money

WORST CAR EVER BUILT

SRX

Best Used car I have purchased.

After another $1000.00 repair I traded

Adjustable pedals

Luxurious & Reliable, worth every penny!

Outstanding All-Around Family Vehicle

The perfect electric personal luxury coupe v.2

You Should Road Test a 2016

ELR

Dr Tasso Pappas recommends 1 a day 4 work and play

Love it!

Wonderful ride

2012 SRX is a lemon

Perfect Bling to Wear

Cadillac Forgot Comfort

my review

Unreliable Nav System.

46K miles and still not a problem

Very Happy with Purchase

2012 Cadillac SRX

Great All-round Vehicle

1st impressions

Great looking car

If your planning on spending $50k look at something European

2010 SRX has problems

Car in Shop 1 week

Good Value

2010 

I love my  2011 SRX

went back to GM after 20+ years

Love this car!

Love this Caddy!

A Bit of a Bummer

love my Cadillac SRX

Loving my SRX

Loving My New  Luxury SRX FWD

Awesome Caddy

I'm Disappointed in Cadillac and Sewell

don't buy this year make and model of cadillac

Almost a perfect 10

Government Motors Crossover Failure

2 for 1 and did my homework

Good All Around SUV

2012 SRX Performance

2012 SRX- Style and Luxury!

Loving it !

Absolute Delight

SRX-DISAPOINTED 

No speedometer

2013 SRX4

Cadillac mid size suv

Ride with style

A great little SUV

  Black Beauty

Obsessed!

Spare tire vs tire repair kit

SRX-Premium Edition

FIRST CADILLAC

Not Quite There but close

Cadillac SRX Review

MySrx

2014 SRX

Ok SUV

Awesome Vehicle

Very Pleased

Love My 2014 SRX

It returns the favor

Too many repairs

Good for the money

 I am disappointed in my SRX

Great suv

nice car,,hard seats,,seat memory worthless

New to me

Small car great value

Great ride and comfort

Satisfied customer

So Far So Good

Great ride for a 6' 4" big guy

1 year owner

Heavy cruiser, not sporty, kludgy touch interface

Best car I have ever owned.

Ted 2010

Way To Go GM!

Great Suv

2010 Cadillac SRX

Still Proving Itself to Me

Poor Navigation system

Very happy with the SRX

Caddy SRX is a Winner

Sexual white chocolate

Fairly new yet but

Most comfortable car I've ever owned.

CADILLAC IS A BIASED COMPANY

First "American" Car 

Braking saved my life

2015 Cadillac SRX - A Level Below Other Luxury Car

Everything we expected and more.

Happy happy

Great SUV

What a vehicle! Pure class.

2010  SRX Cadillac AWESOME SUV gets 9.3!

Hopefully a keeper.

cool air gone for good

REALLY disappointed with me '10 SRX!!!

AMAZING

That's a beautiful car!

Love this little Caddy

A different story

SRX after two weeks of ownership

Best out there

Worth the wait

OK but not Good.

Super Road Experience (SRX)

Our third SRX

Worst seats ever, this is not luxury

Awesome

Nothing out there compares to a Caddy

A reason, why it's the Cadillac of "CADILLAC"!

Lake Cadillac

Love this suv

Broke down mountain

OVER PRICED EQUINOX

Cadillac SRX 2016, Thoughts

Scatty Caddie!

Uncomfortable !

>2 minutes tin can

Fantastic!

As Good as it Gets

Next Time Around Will Be Ferrari!

Continental GT- Smoke and Mirrors

Nice to look at, disappointing to own.

The Best of the Best

You better have deep pockets

Love It

2005 Bentley Continental GT 

THIS IS IT!

Bentley - Major Disappointment

Good looks can be deceiving

Muscular torso in a Savile Row suit

Outstanding car

2005 Bentley GT

2005 Bentley Continental GT 

The Ghost...

Soul family

Not Expected

My jaw hit the floor

They should have named it Kia Steal

So far, great car!

Good car but not for me

2008 Lexus RX 350 AWD, the best RX yet

The best SUV in its class!!

2008 Lexus RX 350

Very happy with lexus rx350

Good car, except for the rattle

Lexus will not stand by their product

Problems, and More Problems

RX350 Needs Work

Excellent family car!

Lexus Rx 350 is the best!

2008 LEXUS RX350 AWD

Engine Noise

Inferior Tires 

Lexus lives up to its reputation

The dashboards melt, Lexus is slow to fix.

Excellent car

Love this RX 350!

Great Car!

Mostly Lovin' It

Not what we expected

Soul Love

Kia Kelly!

Kia/Hyundai in, Honda and Toyota out

I love it!

Luvin my hamster ride!

Last Kia I will own

In Love with the Soul

I lOvE mY nEw CaR

praise is deserved

Chech your steering

One of the Best Overall SUVs

Love to Drive this car

Love it

Versatility Plus

Tweaking of the Highlander.

Even Better than the Last RX

Quiet & Quick/Sleek & Smooth

Party!

Mixed Bag

Needs new stereo, otherwise fantastic..

Sharp lookin' vehicle

Above the rest

Our First Lexus

Drive Train

Fine Product

2006 to a 2010

My 4th Lexus RX is the best ever.

Lexus Lover

diehard jeep fan who crossed over

Unintended Acceleration Warning

Great SUV

Lexus problems

Jerky Auto Shift

Wins big in most areas, and loses big on others

Don't believe the few bad reviews

My old one was better

2010 Lexus RX350

Nice car but not Lexus nice

Bad suspension in 2010 Lexus 350 RX

RX 350 Noisy Engine

FANTASTIC

Solid B+ Performer

Love the Rx 350

Review of RX 350 AWD

A Day with a Matador

True value

Practical and fun to drive

Elegant, fun to drive SUV

Rattle, Rattle, Rattle

2009 Lexus RX 350 Pebble Beach

Replaced 2006 LS 430 with 2009 RX

Fits me well

Great Freeway Cruiser

Nice Luxurious SUV-Strange Lack of Features

I love my Lexus

Flawed Tranny

new rx 350

First Experience with my 2009 RX350 FWD

297 K miles and still going

2007 Lexus RX350

One of the best cars I have ever owned!

bought used in Nov2010 

Less REX for the Money

My Favorite Lexus

RX 350 stinks

Best buy for mid size

Disappointing quality

Nice vehicle, but overpriced for size.

owner

Do not purchase this car

Fun to drive

it's alright not so bad

Fun Versatile Runabout/SUV

What A Car!

Fun little 4x4

Kia Crap 4x4

The Best Kept Secret In Cars Today

I love this car!

Keeps Getting Better!

RC F--Exceptional Balance of Luxury and Performanc

1 year of RC-F ownership - it's amazing!

The RC-F is a 9.5 out of 10!

The RC-F Has  Alot Going For It.

Forget the M4 and C63!

AWESOME!

kia------>>> killed in action..

best car I've owned

LOVE,  love this car!

3 years later

my white jeep

My Wrangler

Great all around Jeep 

My adult Lego!

Great  if you realize what you're buying

mud monster

Built Great

Velvet Rocket!

2016 RCF - reliable, comfortable, qualilty, V8

2016 Lexus RC F

Battling the SUV crash image

1990 Jeep Wrangler

Bulletproof construction, fun to drive

Kinda Bummed

This is my dream car

Will run forever and always gets you home

Bulletproof Car!

90 wrangler laredo

Original Owner

Only automobile I ever loved

behind the music: the jeep wrangler

Won't Burn a Drop of Oil

The way a Jeep ought to be

Had to have it!

Closest Yet

Love this car

Rock Star

Excitement All Over Again

Just got mine last Monday

Big Cat

SuperSport: Just something extra

Here kitty kitty.......

the Jag finally makes the leap into 21st century

Love the older Jaguars

Fantastic power of  black tiger

Best car I've EVER owned!

Outstanding car!

This is my third XJ over 28 years

Simply the best.

Jaguar XJL Supercharged

Service Nightmare

The Cat is on the prowl

Dreaming

WOW

Best car I ever owned.....so far.

The big cat of modern motoring 

Amazing and beautiful

Nice and luxurious

Model is too new.  Wait a while.

Uses no oil, can't tell you where the oil leak is

Best reasonably-priced EV that you can buy today

Soul EV is a Plus

Never buying gas again...Kia Soul ev 2016

Good bye gas , welcome clean air.

Great Ride-Instrumentation Poor

Lexus 
Love The Vehicle, However intermittent noise

I Phone 4S So yesterday! Three ways of control.

Not a high quality vehicle

new vs. old

Classy suv

Everything is great except the gas mileage

Great garage car.

Disappointing

F Sport. Think twice before purchasing this car.

Love this car

Very disappointed 

All I ever wanted

My 3rd Lexus SUV

Can't go wrong with the RX 350!

Got my attention!

Our 3rd Lexus RX 350

2012 RX 350

2012 Lexus review

Gets better the more I drive it

Just plain ugly

Excessive noise and vibration

noise in low speed

=== Do not buy until the fix the MUFFLER ===

Wondering if I should have upgraded...

Top Rated Safety Pick

Lexus discomfort

Lexus owner for life

great suv

I'm Loving My NEW 2012 Lexus RX 350!!!

Smooth As Glass

RATTLES A LITTLE

Lovin my new lexus

Not already!!

Most comfortable vehicle I ever owned.

Metal Found in Filter, Heads came off

Comfort and luxury

What a steal!

What a steal!

Follow Up Of November Purchase of RX350

Previous RX Owners Might Be Dissapointed

I hope the new ones ride better.

Should buy MDX F/L , biger, better design in side, 

Very pleased

Does what it's supposed to do

Land Rover Excellence!

Best Car of my Life

moving on ...

Got everything I expected

Great 4 x 4 City & Camping

Great Truck, but there are some quirks

Best 4X4Xfar

Money Pit!!

Rover ready

What's all the fuss?

Sad!

No Value For The Price

Cheap Manufacturing

disco in alaska

Disco party

Buyer Beware!

Will buy another one

GREAT CAR.  I LOVE IT

Disco I's

Awsome......

what price loyalty?

Great SUV

If I had a million dollars...........

Where do I start, Never Again

Testament to its toughness 

Sorry, but no Cigar!

Disco SE7

worst car ever

'04 LR Disco in CA

A truly special car!!

Land Rover is bad

Best SUV ever Owned

My dream car

2004 Dicosvery 2 trial w/155k miles

Excellent

Very Comfortable and Economical

A great second generation hybrid

RX450h

Miles of Smiles

very snow worthy

Disappointed mpg

Love it!

Just an owner for over a month, but what a car!

Lexus Lemon Car

Lexus RX 450 H

Ipod disatifaction

Ride

Comfortable Ride

Scoop on Mileage

Terrible car

Disco 1  5 speed 

Too BAd.

my mechanics kids are going to Harvard

Great Used Truck for the MONEY

Love this car!

Loving the Lexus

Surprised at low resale

Love it.

2010 rx 450h hybrid

Too bad

The Buzzard

Best Car Ever

Has problems but never lets me down...

Don't buy a Land Rover

Love Hate Relationship

Will be buried penniless in this car

Style and Substance meet in the Disco

Best...and...Worst Vehicle You Could Ever Own

Never sell my Land Rover!  Just pay the repairs.

Excellent Car

1994 Disco

discovery - a solid value & fun!

Good SUV

Keeps going and going and going...

Defective seat

The good in the bad

Engine damaged after overheating

To be avoided!

absoloutely wonderful

Better than the 2009's

Looks good, reliable, well-built

Disco is dead

Oh God I've Made A Terrible Mistake

dissapointed

Love it or Hate it!

I Love This Truck

Worth every penny

Stay Away From Disco

No-Go Disco

Make sure you read before buy!

moneypit for sure!!

Just Know What You're Getting

Horrible Car

A money hole

Discovery II

Wouldn't give this car to my worst enemy

The dealer is the worst part

Disappointing!

My Land Rover Experience

Find a good one

Dream Car, but not quite a Nightmare

You gotta love this Rover...

Don't be fooled

Whatever you do keep it awayyyyyy!!

For real 4WD enthusiasts only

Just bought disc

Rugged and Reliable

Money pit series two

FIRST AND LAST LAND ROVER. 

Fun, good looks, rugged, expensive.

Best SUV Around

sold to someone else...thank goodness!

Land Rover Discovery LSE 1998

PLEASE DONT BUY THIS CAR

We love our Land Rover

Time to move on

Louise the Land Rover

Discoverys are Great!!!

BEST 4X4 EVER

Not comparable to a Land Rover LR4

Solid family SUV

Love my car

Options selection

Bought Used 2014 with Only 17,000 mi

rippled windshield

Land Rover--great buy

Best ever

BEST SUV IN THE WORLD

Long term evaluation

A Wonderful 4X4! If one can handle it!

loving my RX-350

Defective transimission

Like new

Just purchased a CPO 2014

Home run for Lexus RX-350

96 Discovery SE7

96 Discovery SE7

This SUV will bleed you dry!

Great Vehicle

Don't buy one

Run as fast as you can

Why?

Shop sees it more than I do

Don't Buy A Land Rover!!!

Outstanding vehicle for Adventures

Loved it, but regretted it

This SUV is the ultimate

1998 Disco

Mixed feelings

Off road, on road, It doesn't matter

nothin like a rover!

Discovery II

Excellent rig !

Awesome

The Adventures of Anuqa

Awesome

Disco

Rocer rave

Understand a Land Rover

LR disco

One Amazing Tank

Towing Machine

A let down!!

Nice Vehicle- High maintenance

Might get another

Smooth ride, But....

Horrible service, unreliable, bad AC

Had to put new tires on the car

Luxurious but Dissapointing

Highlander has better interior and ride

Misleading Fuel Economy

Older models are better

Good but not so good...

Great all around suv.

Who allowed this electronics interface to be released???

What potholes?

Might get another

great suv

1997 Discovery promised and delivered

Great DISCO

Hard to stop a Disco

Fantastic all round vehicle

a real 4x4 not a SUV

Quite Happy

Interesting 2nd car (truck)

An awesome RX 350 !

My one month old Lexus saved my lfe

2015 RX 350 may not be a sports car but...........

As solid as a Mercedes E-350

Really pleased with my decision

Smooth ride?

The best SUV on earth

RX 350 Worry Free Comfort

Hate the new 2013 RX 350

AM RADIO PROBLEM

Pleasantly Surprised

Absolutely LOVE it.......

Elegance, Sophistication, Power

Great vehicle with only a few complaints

Not made in Japan &  service costs vary greatly

2013 RX350 FWD fully loaded

Suggestions

My new 2013 RX350

More than expected...........I just love my Lexus

2013 moves ahead in design

Amazing automobile

Solid Reliability Lexus

My 4th RX SUV

Love it.

ARCHAIC  NAV SYSTEM

STILL a Great Certified SUV

Had enough with noise in the cabin :(

Compliments my Porsche 911

Wow

Engaging the cruise control blanks out the dashboard display!

Happy as can be!

Smart key not very smart

Feeling of Disappointment. 

LACK OF CUBBIES

Slightly Disappointed but Good Overall

love it but the grill has to go!

In reference to another review dated 1/26/2016

My 5th RX350

Enjoying new RX!

Buyers remorae

WIRELESS THROTTLE NIGHTMARE

Somewhat disappointed

2016: Love it or hate it!

Unfair knock on the looks

Welcome Home

2016 RX 350 Noise, Vibration - Lexus has no remedy

New owner love the car but tech weak

Vibration Uncharacteristic for Lexus

Lexus or a compact car?

A third Lexus for me

Nice upgrade from my RX 400h

Worth waiting for

noisy car

I don't LOVE it

Everything I hoped it would be

Throaty noise in low gear

Failed Lexus!!!

Expected way MORE from Lexus!

Beautiful Vehicle!

A Bit Disappointed

Best overall combination.

Best Lexus I've owned in 20 years!

RX Hater

Luxury meets Reliability

Still the best in its class

Lived a crazy life in SoCal

The BEST bang for the BUCK you can BUY!!!

2011 Kia with Soul!

LOVE IT!!!

You don't drive the Soul; You WEAR it

nice car, but wish it got better mpg

A great little run about and a real value

I love my new SOUL + 

My First Kia

Soul + - unbelievable bargain !

Still a Cool Little Ride!!

Love My Soul!!

From a ޠton Hemi to a Soul!

car not bad, kia company is terrible

Awesome Alien Green machine

That's Normal for this Car

I wish I wouldn't have 

It's wonderful

No Soul Better Than An Old Soul

Bless My SOUL!

My Little Red Wagon

LOVE THIS CAR!

My 2 year 56k mile review

2014Kia Soul!

Rockin' Red Kia Soul

this vehicle sucks

WORK CAR

GOOD LITTLE TRUCK

Kia Sportage

Sales Car

Doesn't suck

97 Kia--Poor Mechanical Quality

What a CUTE car!

i hate it!!!

Cross Country in a Kia

Do not purchase!

Sportage EX 4x4 Time to let go of it.

Great Little SUV

3 months, and it's dead

Nightmare

Don't Buy This Car

Thumbs Down

Don't Buy Kia

Don't do it

BEST BUY IN BELIZE TRY IT

TOO NOISY!

OUTSTANDING car!!!!

DO NOT BUY A KIA

Best Little Compact Station Wagon For Your Money

Feels good!

Pretty good for a first new car!

Kia

GOO FOR THE $$$$

Just My Luck

Not as many complaints

Cheaply made

1998 Kia Sportage

Worthless Sportage

Hindsight 20/20

Gets me anywere in any conditions

Good Value for a 4x4

Very Unsatisfied

thank goodness for my warranty

money sucking little suv

a real value

Cars Birthday Review

don't buy

VERY UNSAFE VEHICLE

What do you expect from this car?

REPAIRS ADDING UP!

Great car

Pleasantly Surprised

Kia has been good to us!

My Kia

Hate it!

review

You get what you pay for

Think long and hard before buying!!

College Student DREAM SUV!

KIA Sportage 4WD 2000

Run away!

Owner of a GREAT Sportage!

Will never buy another Kia...Ever!

1999 Kia Sportage Ex

Intermittent Starting Problem

STALLER

none

So-so Sportage

WORSE CAR EVER...RUN AWAY!

Re-think getting a KIA!!!!

A Bad Choice

Former Kia Sportage Owner

1999 kia sportage

99 Sportage

Never own a KIA EVER EVER EVER

Best First Car!

Great SUV for the money

Over 200k!

KIA OWNER

Kia Sportage 4 Dr Base

not satisfied with the 4x4 performance!

Don't buy this car!  2000 Kia Sportage

Love This Car

Best Car I Have Ever Owned (for the $$$)

2000 Kia Sportage EX 4WD

Not a good idea

Unhappy Owner

Continual Electronic Failures

My happy Soul

Kia Soul Review

Beware the Tires

I LOVE THIS CAR

I'm A Soul Man!

in my soul

2 months and already MAJOR issues??

We LOVE this car!!

Great Car

Great "Around Town" Car

I love my 2012 Kia Soul Base Automatic w/options

Fun AND Value

Love the Soul!

Base model - Lot of bang for the buck

2015 Soul 1.6 automatic=GREAT car!

I got Soul!

3rd Kia Soul purchase

great little car

bout time to have fun

Inferno Red Plus Mostly Delights

Great fun at a reasonable price

The most rewarding therapy I've ever had!

One year with my 2015 Kia Soul !

Little blue Devil

Be very careful

Would not recomend this vehicle.

Love my Sportage!

Great small SUV

Fun pickup truck

My Review

Ive had 9 brand new cars in my life...my Soul beats them all!  Hands down!

Fun to Drive

New Soul !

This car won't leave you stranded

Pros and Cons

best for the price.

best for the price.

Surprising quality for price

Bought in 1997 and still going strong

Nice surprise

If you are tall this is a great little car!!!

Perfect small car for tall drivers! Awesome! A++

My First New Car

2015/2014 KIA SOUL+

I love it!!

Great Little Car

Great value people mover.

Regarding the below review regarding poor mileage...

Very pleased with this car!

Great little compact utility, paint sucks

What a deal

Everyone Needs a Titanium Soul (Now & Then)

I have to admit, I like this car  

Pleasantly Surprized

So fun

My Stylish Little Economizer!!

A pleasent Surprise!

A neat machine

Great value for the money!

Best Kept Secret!

LOVED my 2011 but onto my SECOND in a 2016

Fun To Drive

Good car for the price

Excellent little commuter

Good buy

Ideal for a tight budget

Definitely a Soulman

What kind of meds are the hamsters on?

First Impression

Never expected to love this car...

Soul is more than value for the dollar

My First Kia

The All New Soul Is Perhaps the Best Deal out there

What a buy!

RELIABLE and DEPENDABLE

It's a Lexus, need I say more...

Comfort

Huge surprise!!!!!!!!!

2014 Kia Soul, my third Soul!

2014 kia soul exclaim with whole shabang package

Amazing !

Update of previous reveiw

So many pluses!

This Car is so good, I just ordered 2 new ones

Happy camper

my 3rd. Lexus

Waste of Money

Rockin RX

Great family car

GAS MILEAGE

our 5th and best RX

The GPS 

Thinking of going green?  Don't bother....

Major problems; returned car

Close to Excellent

Simply Delivers

2 years and 34000 miles

Best Buy 2013 hybrid SUV 450 Lexus

POOR fuel economy!

Better than Mercedes,BMW

The comfortable tireless driving experience.

Hybrids Rock

Before You Buy Hybrid

2013 RX 450h vs 2006 RX400h

gives only 22 MPG vs 30 - 32 as stated on sticker

All around outstanding mid size SUV

A Joy Every Day

Great - but!!!

2016 Lexus RX450H an excellent car to own & drive

New RX 450h awesome!

An Ugly Duckling

HYBRID MAN

AWESOME RX

I love this car!

Used to Be a Honda Enthusiast.

A Soul + at a Soul ! price

updated trade in

Sport seats are miserable if you are 38" waist

Not so quiet ride!

hybrid rules

Very good, not perfect

Ugly Front End

Absolutely awesome redesign of this car.

A Reasonably Priced Unisex Car

One Sweet Ride

MY 4th Lexus SUV and the best ever.

FSport Hybrid--UNBELIEVEABLE!

Fun little Hampster Car!

Great for 6'2" tall teacher with a 1 hour commute

My "Soul" mate!

4 or 5 depending on expectations

My "Soul" mate!

Safe car for your kids!

Fell in love with my Caribbean Blue Soul!

"ITS A SLEEPER"

My HAMSTA

Versatility, practicality and value

RX450h

RX 450h After 1 year

Replacement for a nightmare!

Love it!

Good for seniors

The best of all worlds.

Fun car and a great value!

I'd never even considered a Kia Soul !

This little car is amazing

Plenty of Room for Four 6-Footers!

A most excellent and fun little car

Kia has officially blown me away

Great vehicle, very happy

Great vehicle for the price

Do NOT buy if you drive in rain or snow 

user friendly

My New Kia Sportage

Lot's of truck,little price

What were you expecting? 

pathetic suv

great little car

Excellent!  No problems! 60,000 miles!

I hate this car

Kia Sportage 2WD Convertible -Must Read-

Pleasantly surprised

Very Pleased!

06 Sportage Review

Great mini suv

Why pay big bucks

Kia Sportage versus Rav 4

Love It

Kia Sportage

not bad at all

Glad I Bought It

How can you go wrong?

Happy Kia Owner

Just bought an '06 Sportage!

Recent trip

So Far So Good...

Heels on Wheels!

Did My Homework

Vehicle = OK, KIA Service = BUST

Finally

Very much worth buying!

Not Impressed

my first kia

Great Car for Price

Great Value

Research brought me to the SPORTAGE

Solid SUV with nagging issues

Stay away from KIA!

Fabulous SUV

Practical SUV

I Love My Kia Sportage!

Better than the Audi I have owned

Sporty, Great Small/Midsize AWD SUV, BEAUTY!

Sweet ride

Kia Sportage... hard to go wrong with this one...

Good and bad

not sure about this car

KIA means Killed in Action

2013 Sportage rear end

KIA - Killed In Action - Unsafe Turbo Engineering

2013 Kia Sportage

Worse vehicle ever purchased so I traded it in

2013 Kia Sportage

Sportage

Took a little getting used to but really happy

So far so good..

20,000 Miles and Going

Best car I have ever owned

Great Value, Features, & Style

Turbo Problems in 2011 Kia Sportage

Who would have known?

Lovin every minute of it

2nd Kia

After a month of use

Amazing Summer Vehicle

Jeep the wonder Vehicle

Once you buy one, you'll love it!

Its a O[[[O

The great JEEP!!!

It's a JEEP thing, u wouldn't understand

Jeep rocks

Fun In The Sun...........

square headlights bad

car check

Jeeps are dependable

Toy Jeep

Absolute BLAST at low speeds

234K miles and going strong

Surprised at Great Reliability

Hate/like relationship with this vehicle!

horrible car

Uncomfortable Seats, Horrible Gas mileage,

Well Pleased

1993 Renegade

She sure was a good ship

Mechanics special???

Jeepers

Best Money Spent

Its a jeep thing!!!

smart wheels

wonderful

4.0L 94 YJ

Still Jeepin' after 11 years

you will be missed, my old friend

joel

Nail in the coffin of American cars

I named mine the Duke!!

The Wrangler

Nice car, shame about the ride.

Surprisingly good

Good Car

Just plain fun to drive

Little Quirks 

Best Kia I've Had So Far!

Trouble Already!

Caution. Transmission problems with only 20K miles

2014 Sportage -- pleased owner

Even Better Second Time Around!

Best of U.S.

best jeep ever!!!

I Love my Jeep!

310000 mile jeep

Go Anywhere

Jeepster

Reliable

Fun for the short-term

Jeep 4 Fun

Wrangler

I sure miss it!

Dependable and Fun

Review of Jeep Wrangler - 1993 - 4 cylinder

by owner

Many happy miles... 

Rat_Patrol

Used but barely

Love It

My Toy

One of the worse vehicles I have owned

Favorite vehicle of all time

These are a dying breed...

I Love My Wrangler

'94 Jeep Wrangler Sahara in NYC

Still runs like a champ!

Save the manuals! 2012 fwd manual

800 miles and a cross-Florida trip in, great car

2013 Kia Sportage AWD

SX.. you won't regret it.

Great Vehicle Minor Setbacks

Fun to drive vehicle with it's quriks.

BUILT SOLID & FUN TO DRIVE

Just What I Wanted

Fun with Turbo

2012 Sportage EX (4,500 miles)

Outstanding quality and value

Sportage Lover

One of Top 3 on compact SUV segment!

peppy little bug!

Great Small SUV

awesome suv

poor brakes

Great little SUV/CUV

Not too bad, but not good enough

Hum

Can You Ignore The Ride?

Surprising (in a good way)

Great cute ute

Move over Rav-4 & CRV 

Great work horse

First Impressions

Sportage EX Update

One fun CUV!

One year and still loving it

Fun vehicle but disappointing fuel economy

Fun driving but seats are awful

Good Build, Poor MPG

Fun Family Car

2013 LX Kia Sportage AWD

I would buy it all over again

Went from a Forester XT to a Sportage SX AWD

never thought I'd drive a Kia

Problem with electronic steering 

3 yrs later...

very nice so far, but...

3rd kia

Great car

1st kia

doesn't get much better

my little baby.

Best value I've owned - 112k mi no repairs!

After 7+ yrs ownership, still maintenance-free

I love my kia

Great on Gas; Fun to Drive

Not too bad!

Mr

Would Rather lose money

don't ever get one!!!

2001 Kia Sportage Limited

Think twice about a kia sportage!

Why all the bad reviews?

Problem Child

Good SUV

GOOD RIG FOR THE $

Same Problems

good car

A great value

The VW of SUVs

Good Car

horrible

Kia Sportages are TERRIBLE!!

2001 kia sportage limited ex edition

sportage

Nizzies

Transmission Sensor

Solid & Reliable

High-country commuter

Love my Kia

Absolutely A Great SUV

Great Car

Non smoking Campers view 2008 sportage.

Bad Service

Most bang for the buck

Best of SUVs

Love my Sportage!

mountain road king

Great Colorado SUV

A Competitive vehicle

Kia Sportage 2008

2000 miles and I like it

Love this car!

wow

Long Term Review on the Sportage

Fun car

AWESOME....

GREAT VALUE!

Have I really become a Kia fan???

Vehicle is Passable, Service Stinks on Ice

Love my 2008 Sportage

great small SUV for the price

Satisfied customer

Pre Owned Kia

09 Kia Sportage long term review

Very Happy with Purchase

3 months of ownership, radio gone

So Far so good!

ESC light is on

Nice exterior/poor reliability

Loved It, Sorta Love It Still

Great SUV for the price.

Disintegrating interior

A $16K 6cyl 4x4

Awesome car

Long term review

Value! Value! Value!

No longer an Acura owner!

What a sexy little beast!

2017 Kia Sportage - Beautiful but with Problems

Defective Vehicle

So far so good

As named, a Sporty SUV

crv rav rogue cx3 LOOKOUT !

Catch a Sport!

My new SX turbo rocks!

My new Kia is better than the last

Good, dependable, first car

Mix if good and bad

Nice little SUV

Very Happy with this car

ALL  THATS GOOD, AND ALITTLE BAD

Love It

2016 Sportage

And The Winner Is

My Sportage is SeXy!

kia hits a home run

Better mileage than EPA DATA

JUST BOUGHT

Best Car I've Ever Owned!

The Perfect Car

Love this car!

Good car

Great Purchase

I will stick with Kia after owning one.

not happy

Great little SUV for a small price

Finally, a stylish 4X4 stick-shift SUV!

my brand new suv

Twilight blue Sportage!

Ok, but not completely satisfied.

So disappointed!

Best Decision!

MAMA MIA, A GREAT LITTLE KIA

2005 Kia Sportage LX 2.7L V6 Automatic

Mixed Feeklings

My Kia

Tire Issue

Love this little SUV!

Fun to drive but disappointing fuel economy

Best bang for the buck!

Need to have eyes like bats.

Read and Research Before you Purchase

Nice compact SUV

better than my old rav4

Fun to drive

Great small SUV

KIA SPORTAGE LX-V6 4x4

3 years and still love it!

AVOID AT ALL COSTS

Why I buying another Sportage

Used 2005 Kia Sportage

Reliable, comfortable SUV with a lot of extras!!!

Buy a Sportage - you wiill love it!!

Don't knock it 'til you try it!

Best vehicle I've ever owned

Never Ever had a problem

KIA REALY IS THE POWER TO SURPRISE

First Impressions on the Sportage

Would like a convertible Sportage next time

Love my Kia, a real trooper!!!

Got My Money's Worth!

great friend for almost 14 years

Great First Car

Decent value for a second vehicle.

Cheap, Fun 4x4

VALUE

Awesome 4x4

My first Kia

Highway and Trail

"1995 Rio Grande"

Jeep

Love my Wrangler

Well-Loved Jeep

Best vehicle I ever bought

You can't kill it!!!!

Love this Jeep!

Not a good all around vehicle

95 Jeep YJ

Worth the Purchase

Great Find

I'd always wanted one...

Its a JEEP thing(you wouldnt understand)

great jeep

!995 Jeep wrangler rio grande

Great vehicle for all seasons and all reasons

Love my Jeep and will never sell it !

14yrs and counting

Better than the new ones

Bulletproof! Best purchase ive ever made

This thing is built like a tank

Black and Tan TJ

My Jeep

Good for off-roading

Its a Jeep Thing- You Wouldnt Understand

Nothing like it.

Great Deal

My Joyride

have fun

Looks good, runs like crap

Fun Fun Fun

Jeep problems

Good Off-Road

I'm a happy camper

Wanted one for a long time

money wasted

Pathetic build quality.

Rubicon is good

FUN TO DRIVE

You cant go wrong with a jeep

Rubicon

Careful buying a Jeep they need to Fix!

I owned my Jeep for 1 hour

Dangerous on wet roads!!

Was a nice car

Jeep Unlimited: a step up in quality

Jeep Wrangler

3 years later, still lovin' my Wrangler!

05 jeep unlimited

Awesome

Its a Jeep!

Jeep Sport

'06 Jeep Unlimited Wrangler 

Love my Wrangler!

Can't wait!

Gently Used

Jeep Rubicon: 3 Years Later & Loving It!

Jeep 2003 is an awesome 4x4 convertible

Its a Jeep.

Family Fun

No need for a hard top

almost a home run

It's a Jeep

The Legend Lives!

2007 Wrangler Unlimited X

Good Stuff

WILL ALWAYS HAVE @ LEAST ONE IN MY GARAGE!

My second Wrangler

New 07 Sahara is excellent!

great suv

Finally got it

Great all around vehicle

Just a kittle more power please

It's A Jeep!

I Will Always Own A Jeep

My first Jeep

3rd Jeep

Fun to Drive ....Soldier Toy Car

2009 Jeep Wrangler X 2-DR

wrangler unlimited fun daily driver

2009 Jeep JK Wrangler Review

much improved wrangler

Mixed Feelings on our Bailout Buggy

Jeep Wrangler 

Great Fun but Time to Move On

Off-road beast

The Last Car.

Spoiled brats won't like.

Dont Buy Jeep

So far so good

Looks Great - Not sure of Quality Yet

4 Door Jeep X with Soft top

Jeep Owners Dream

fantastic ride

My jeep

Four Wheeled  Dirt Bike

2010 Wrangler Unlimited Mountain

2010 wrangler mountain 3.8l

Fun Toy

Upgrading to the Larger Wrangler

It's About Time

New owner

Jeep Comfort

Yep Yep

Don't Buy Anything from Jeep

4th Wrangler

4x4 sahara  automatic

The right choice

Just As Expected!

2007 vs. 2011

I love it!

Leaking Lemon Freedom Top...One of many

Leaks everytime it rains

Buyer beware

I have a lake in my Jeep?!?

fun and easy

My new toy

Love my Jeep!

Water Leaks

Back to a Jeep....

My New Jeep

Outstanding 

High Oil Consumption

Way to Go Jeep!

Fun to drive, but waiting for something to go wrong

Better every year

Fun to drive, nothing like it

My 4th Jeep,and my favorite

2012 Jeep wrangle

Overall, very happy with this purchase   :-)

Improvements for Future Years

Great all-around family car

By Far the Most Fun Vehicle I've Ever Owned!

2013 Wrangler Sport

2012 Wrangler Sahara Unlimited Auto

Fun car but

The Last Car

2012 Wrangler 2Dr Sport, 6 SPD 

Rust at 3 years old

New jk sold to me with known Problems

3.8 Minivan motor is junk

lack of power

Love my Jeep

Loving the Jeep Unlimited

Finally back in a Jeep Wrangler!

My first 1100 miles

Is this really legal?

2nd JK Owner

2012 Unlimited Sahara with 5spd automatic

Know what to expect and you will love it!!

It's a Jeep thing....NOW I understand :)

Red Wrangler

Comfort without giving up Jeep nature

Dream purchase gone wrong

Loved it, then hated it

Dream come true

Sahara 4 door lemon

2010 Lemon -Transmission dead at 8400mi

3rd one and I love it

Jeep needs to get it together

better than the sahara

Review

Bought mine and am having fun Modding it

Total piece of junk!

SO DISAPPOINTED

Deep Money Pit

Jumped tooo fast !! 

Fun to drive

Consumer Reports was correct

Don't buy this car

Will never own another...

Jeep Is Junk - 2008 Wrangler Sahara Unlimited 4x4 (automatic) 

Last Chrysler product I will ever buy

No power

Waa waa waa!

Its a Jeep

It's a Jeep!

Used ex-BLM Rubicon

Love love love my Jeep!

120,000 miles and many many problems

Great Vehicle

Winter Driving Must Have a Jeep

Rubicon for the family

Awesome

Nothing else will do.

Golden Eagle

Rubicon Fanatic

Love It!

Grabage!!

First time Jeep owner

jeep    just empty each pocket

Mileage not that bad

Finally The Car I Allways Wanted

It's a Jeep thing...you wouldn't understand.

Happy Jeep Owner

The Beast

Faults IGNORED by company

I love my Jeep!

beyond dangerous

The Mud

Great Used Jeep

Fun to drive

Love my jeep

Why didn't I buy one sooner?

Keeper

Its a Jeep

Rocky Mountain Edition Wrangler

It's a Jeep thing, and now I understand

I LOVE MY JEEP

Hey! It's a Jeep!

I love it!

Jeep Rubicon don't be left behind!

Good to go

Have fun while driving

Outstanding

my jeep

Nothing better than a Jeep

Do Not Buy!!!

best jeep ever made

2004 Jeep Rubicon

Coast-to-Coast Jeep

Timeless

Jeep wrangler sport 04

Lots of fun, surprisingly practical.

04 jeep wrangler sport

It's the Genuine Article

Love my Wrangler!

MY FIRST WRANGLER

Fun but costly

Old Reliable

Not for the faint of heart.

Great Year for a Wrangler!

Best Jeep yet

Incredibly Fun

Fun but ...

Chrysler = Unreliable

Built to last

This is one fun vehicle!

Don't buy it - because you'll love it

Fun in the sun

Jeep Country

BUYER BEWARE!

I came back to the Jeep

Perfect Description

Just plain fun

Fun, thy name is Jeep!

(Jeep TJ, Auto, under 100,000km on engine). Mixed Thoughts

Love this thing

Great 3rd Vehicle

1999 Jeep Sahara

Fun, but NOT as a primary car

Dependable & Fun

Jeep Wrangler

Subpar Product

Jeep

Jeep

My new 2002 Wrangler S.E.

What jeep are 4

LOVE MY JEEP!

Wonderful vehicle

1999 Jeep Wrangler Sport

There's Only One!

great car, but not for everyday use

Great if you know what your getting

2002 2.5L 4CYL Wranger SE

Sahara4x4

Simply Great

Great Jeep

Excellent Choice

better than my wife

Great Vehicle

Only in a Jeep

The LOVE of my life

Love it - Hate to see it go.

It's a Jeep thing

It's a Jeep Thing

My forever Jeep

Die before buying a Wrangler.

2001 Jeep Wrangler Sport 4WD

Most Versatile, Fun, Sexy, Reliable Vehicle Ever Built

Last purchase of a car

My favorite ride

a go any where vehicle

Nothing like 'em!

It's a Jeep Thing!

Best vehicle ever! 

Jeeps rule

jeeps rule

Love my Jeep

Jeep - There's Only One

Fun adn Reliable

Frank the Tank

Best vehicle ive ever owned

It's not a car, it's a jeep

Great little tank

Highly Reliable, Highly Fun!

Overall worth every penny

Best Ride Ever!

There truely is only one Jeep

Nice toy but not much else

Not for everyone. That's how I like it!

Love my Wrangler!

Jeep - Yes, Chrysler - oh no

Love it and Hate it

14 Years, 160,000 Miles and Still Love It

Loss of a friend

Great whether in snow or sun!

It's a Jeep thing!

Reliability

Love this thing

Can't be Fixed!

I hate this car

Don't Do It!!!

Chris from Philadelphia

I love my yella Jeep!

Its  A Jeep Thing

Solid Wrangler

JEEPS

Big fat lemon

Like no other. Period. 

When is it time to let go?

The Real Thing

Chris from Philadelphia

Disappointed so far

Love the truck, MPG lousy!

Unstoppable, Rugged, Stylish, and FUN!

I love my jeep, but.....

You Gotta Love the Jeep

Its a Jeep...

My second Wrangler

Don't ever let go!

1995 Jeep Wrangler Rio Grande - Great

my yippi

1995 YJ Wrangler

fuel economy

Best Vehicle I've ever owned

We've done a lot since 98 and still going strong.

My favorite Wrangler ... so far!

Very Fun, bulletproof but expensive

Incredible

Greatest car I've ever owned

Fun to Drive

THE WORLDS BEST CAR

My feel good car

Best car ever built!!!

NSX = Fun For Driving Enthusiasts

Amazing Bang for the Buck

Best Car Period

One of the finest exotic cars even built

Get it if you can!

One of the All-time Greats

Best Buy

Gorgeousted car, electrical nightmare!!

BUY 2 - youll have 1 to drive when other in shop

its great when it is not in the shop

It doesn't get better than this

A Quality Ride

2017 75th Anniversary Wrangler Unlimited

2017 Hard Rock Unlimited is a Beast.

What the heck are the "so called" experts thinking

Hipster Jeepsters drive off delighted ...

Return of the Wrangler man

Jeep Wrangler

Watch out for fender defects on new 2017's

Test One

I'm IN LOVE with my Recon!!

2017 Recon

2014 Jeep Wrangler Sport Very Dependable

Fix the DAMM!!! Top

Get one! You'll thank yourself ~

2014 Wrangle under 6000 miles

2014 Saraha Jeep- best of all worlds

Perfect 4x4 for me

Love it so far

5th Wrangler & By Far The Best!

Sales to Support: Dodge Chrysler Jeep NIghtmare

Family Adventure Platform

Join an exclusive club of fun-seekers!

Third Time....It just keeps getting better!!

First timer

couldn't be happier

Fusrated

A new breed of cat

We are all Heartbroken

Starting to have problems

Transmission problems!

Dream car

Great warranty

Another Bummed Out XF Owner

What a Lemon

2009 Jaguar XF Premium Luxury

The best car I have owned

Looker but OH the frustrations!

Love the Engine and Look - But Hate the Car

Used 2009 XF

Gorgeous Car that Nightmares are Made Of!

Buyer beware..

Glad I waited!

Whoa! Tata has a winner here

Great car, but tires are a disaster

Big cat

Great Car and Fantastic Value....

Looks great...when it leaves you stranded

Can be fixed

Do your homework

Jaguar XF 09 

Still in love after 3 years

Love This Car

First Jag.

I Love My Beastly Beauty

New Brakes Every 10k miles

2011 XF

Best value in class

Don't buy this car

Horrible quality only exceeded by worse customer service

Never thought I would by a Jag

A very fun, stylish, and satisfying car to drive

my jaguar xf  s cut on fire 17 miles from

Jag Electronics-Really?

WOW

Nice car, when it runs!

Great car but not reliable so far

Faster Pussycat Has Arrived

Pick of the Litter

My first but not my last Jag

2010 XF review

After Months of Research I found my Car

Jaguy

Ridiculous Car!

Don't buy this car, they are lemons.

Great Car!

Love the Growl!

As a 12 year former BMW driver, I am Blown away

First time Jag owner

Great Car

First year check up

2013 XF 3.0 AWD

Good Car but it has some bugs

A Jaguar for all seasons

In a Sea of E, 5 and A6s:  Pace with Grace

2014 AWD-XF-Almost Perfect!

So good so far

I wish I could love this car more but....

Brain dead screen control

My swaguar

A different breed for sure

Jags should not get a bad rap

Best Car that I've ever owned

A unique driving experience

My second XF

Growing on Me - Happier Now

My third Jaguar and I still love the brand

Over-Engineered, Over-Rated

Bad brake pads

Love This Car!

One Bad Cat

Amazing Jag

WOW, English Engineering Refined!

Former Jag Lover

Head Turner

GREAT RIDE

Amazing!!!!!!

LOVE MY SAHARA JKU!

great looking vehicle

Love my jeep wrangler/ Willys edition

More than we thought

Purchase has been complete nightmare!

Unlimited Sahara as a Daily Driver

Willy Got a Willys Wheeler

Best fun in a vehicle

SECOND VERSE SAME AS THE FIRST

Jeverus the Jeep

Problems Overblown

2013 Wrangler Sahara Unlimited 

First Wrangler (2 door)

A Fantastic Blend of Capabilities

It's a Jeep!

If its for you its perfect

10th Wrangler   8 new and 2 used

Jeep Wranglers Wave at arch Other on the Road

3rd Wrangler - The JK is by far the best!

Never buying another Chrysler!

'13 Wrangler Unlimited 

Modern classic

Looks great! Troubles great!

Great Fun!

Jeep doesn't stand behind product

Very happy with my new Jeep

I THINK I WILL BE GOING BACK TO A PICKUP

Jeep is fun stuff.

Loving my Jeep

Fun and Comfortable

JEEPaholic

9th Wrangler and counting

New JK Kicks [non-permissible content removed]

Wranglewr review

You get what you see

2014 JKU 4x4 Highly disappointed

Finally got it

Truly Disappointed.  Do NOT buy a Jeep Wrangler.

Very Fun To Drive

After 9 months and lots of mile - thoroughly enjoying my Jeep

Got What I Wanted

2014 4dr Jeep Wrangler manual

2 Years and 55k miles of Dream Ownership

My 2014 Jeep Sahara

Best wrangler ever

Love this Hard RocK!

It is My Jeep!

Still lovin' my 2016 Jeep Wrangler Sport!

Wrangler Unlimited

Willys Rocks

JEEP WRANGLER AMAZING

2016 Unlimited Rubicon

its a Jeep, not a Cadillac

Its a Wrangler Thing

Does anyone have brake issues.

Jeep Fever Returns!!!

Love  my machine

Fun ride with waste of technology

Wife Wanted Purple

My dream vehicle

Jeep for Life

2nd Wrangler much better

55 yr old male loves his Rubicon

6th Wrangler purchase

Loving my jeep

continental GT

My Bentley

Bentley Continental GT

Bentley Cont GT

Bently Continental GT

Pattsys Baby Bentley

Car carlovers must have

2004 Bentley Continental

The Perfect Car

bently

Awesome Car

Best Car Ever!

Jaguar XJL portfolio, awesome car

My third Jaguar, but my first XJ

Love this car

Fast ,Luxurious and Beautiful

Stylish Jag

Welcome to my gentleman's stage of life

Best value for $$$

Big Blue Beast

The exceptional Jaguar XJL

Lucky to be alive

This car is my child

Complicated!

Love my new XF - 2016 Redesign

My 2nd XF "I've got a Jaguar by it's tail"!

Falls short on the details that make a difference

Lexus RC350 F Sport is Outstanding

Easily turned into a road warrior

My new RC 350 is still going strong 6 months in

A good sport car !

not a car for old farts!

My Dream Car

My 2nd one! Love it!

Great Sports Car

Great mix of  sportiness, comfort, tech and MPG.

Love Love Love my RC 350 F Sport

The right stuff! (as in pulls hard right)

Solid, well-thought out coupe

Great Coupe

It is a Lexus!

Not yet ready for Primetime

Almost perfect!

Almost there!

First Lexus

Great car!!

BEST LEXUS EVER

The Car to get -- If Driving Matters Most.

Wonderful!!!

NX 200 Smoothness

Stepping down in size but up in overall experience

Done right, but missing things

eh.

As good as it gets

Took some time getting used to

Lexus IS300

A True Match for BMWs

Who needs a BMW!!

8 months with IS 300 (and going...)

Eye Catcher

IS 3

Never had a problem

Best Car I have ever owned

2003 IS-300 review

I'm VERY happy.

what a blast

The Fastest and most fun to drive LEXUS

Amazing Performance/ Poor Cabin Usablity

Best of Both Worlds

Not so happy with new GS 450h

Lexus GS 450h - Nice but not great

Incredibly Mediocre

Green luxury

A superb sedan

Lexus GS450h

Quiet, reliable, satisfying power

Unbelieveable Power

You can almost have it all

Engineering Masterpiece

Great ride

Practical and fun

Fast and Fun Car to Drive

My new GS 450h

Great Car

OK

its a lexus

One year and still in love

The best car I've driven

Trunk

Love the blue

An opinion

Certified GS450h

I found the perfect car

Impressive

Incredible performance

What's not to like with the IS-300

Could be a bit faster, but I love mine

my review

A Different Breed of Lexus

Best car I have ever owned

A Great Replacement

Fun and affordable

Great deal

Gram's fun car

IS 300 - none better in its class

Fun car to drive

Great Car

Buyer's Remorse Gone Sweet!

Call me IMPRESSED!

IS 300 Outstanding

Oooh la la!!

Best Car I've Had

From BMW 3 series to Lexus IS 300

Get The IS

Worth every penny.

Understand what you're buying

Home-Run

2003 Lexus IS300 Sport Design

My Favorite Car. Will  not sell it...

Sold my IS 300 after Seven good years

Impressive

Loaded 2002 IS300

Excellent Vehicle

Amazing car.  One of a kind!

Great Car

Solid as Gibraltar

Quarter Million Mile IS

Absolutely red :) 5M

Hats off to Lexus

Everything and More

I didn't know...

Stylish, sporty, stellar

Best Balanced Car

Great Used Car

Service

Bought at 160k and doing great

BEST CAR EVER!

Excellent

IS300 Awesome, But Can Always Be Better

Like A Fine Swiss Watch

LX-570 Review - I Love This Car!

Best vehicle

Perfection

Very Pleased

First Lexus - very impressed

Pretty, smooth  SUV...poor technology

New Lexus NX

NX200T F Sport  is awesome !

I would absolutely purchase the same car again

Great & Stylish Small Crossover

Almost got it right

My first SUV, my first Lexus

GO BUY ONE TODAY!

Absolutely Love My NX

There's a reason its lexus never fail to preform!

SUPERB DRIVING EXPERIENCE

Extreme styling

Take That, Consumer Reports!

After three ES Sedans--A Lexus CUV for me

Great Mid-size SUV

Love it!

Lovin' the Lexus

This vehicle brought me to Alexis from Mercedes

awesome ride

Lexus GS 350 F Sport - Red Interior!!

This is a great drivers car.

The velvet beast

Disappointed

Best SUV I've EVER Owned

168K miles and drives like new

Smarter Than Your Average Ride

Outstanding Vehicle

Amazing Vehicle

Palace on Wheels

2008 Lexus LX 570

The Rolls Royce of 4x4's!

Not what I expected :(

Animal power

A Graceful Hippopotamus

Awesome

Nice, Very NIce

Ultimate of the Ultimates!

The Land Cruiser of a King

LX 570 THE Luxury SUV

Smooth rider

Another Fine Lexus You've Got Me In!

Bought it for the looks

Car that will be FOREVER AWESOME

Great Crossover SUV

Acura RDX, a better Value

Great combination vehicle

Never could find the car I wanted :-(

Only 500miles comments

2017 LX570 KING OF SUVS

NX F SPORT IMPRESSIONS AFTER THE FIRST FEW WEEKS

Pleased with my Lexus NXt

New 2016 NXt AWD first drive and impressions

Happy Wife, Happy Life

I'm in love

Post soccer Mom car

Great looker, ugh entertainment/navigation control

So nice we bought it twice

Getting there in style

Great tweener SUV

Nice car but is a bit of a disappointment.

nice car

Chosen from BMW X-1, Infinity QX30, and Audi Q3

F-sport Baby

Love it!

Love it so far

1 year and counting

i was hoping to fall in love....

NX cruzin'

No buyers remorse here! More than meets the eye.

NX 200t

Stylish and smooth

2017 Lexus NX Turbo

great compact SUV

Love it

Best car yet

Solid

Best SUV

Size does matter

07 Lexus GS350

Long awaited purchase - 07 GS 350

I Love this car

What the GS 300 should have been!

Proud & Delighted

Amazing car

Great Automobile

Best of Both

Start & stop your search with the GS 350

Excellent vehicle

Excellent car, but minor changes needed

2007 Lexus GS 350

Just about perfect

Fantastic car: the GS 350 AWD

Lexus Longevity

Stop wasting time - go get one!

2007 AWD GS 350

Grown & Sexy

GS 350, The Better Car

Perfection

Lexus For Life

No surprises!!! it's a LEXUS!!!!!

Great new features over the 2004 if they worked

Comfortable but No Soul

GX 460, please do not buy

Great Purchase! 

A Toyota 4 Runner disguised as a Lexus

Best all around utility for road and off road.

lexus GX 460

Superb SUV

2013 Lexus 460

Finally in love with my car

Fail Lexus, The Buick of Japanese Automakers

2nd GX...

Still the best on the road!

Top Notch SUV

Premium

Same problem

GX 460 review (already problems)

Very impressive fuel economy

Best SUV I ever had

A poor excuse for a Lexus

Lower back pain

prefecto

Supper SUV

2011 GX460 - Amazingly Inferior Sound System

SUV of 2010

Best SUV

SUV made us sick

Acceleration

Avoid this truck

3rd Lexus GX

Best Luxury SUV In its Class

Your only choice

Most Impressive

Love my GX 460!

Beware of MPG Claims on the GS450h

Best New Car I've Ever Owned

2013 GS450h

Luxurious with high performance and fuel efficiency!

Almost 1 year later & still loving it

39 months later and love the car even more

Not So Bright Headlamps 

Lack of power a real problem

Lexus Enform does not work.

LEXUS GX460

GS F Refined nastiness

2016 GX460

What an expensive mistake!!

Lexus still can't get technology and support down!

Love this SUV

Expedition Downsizing / Follow-up review

GX is great

Please make a V8 4Runner again Toyota!

Loooooooove!!!

Reliability and Comfort

One great Lexus

My 1st Lexus

New GX 460

Bulletproof reliability - but terrible otherwise

not made like the older ls400

Third Lexus

LOVE this car/ride!

Good value for the money

My favorite car!

Paying a lot of money for a lot of issue

The Right Choice

Outstanding Engineering!

Great Car!

Fantastic!

Nice luxury sedan...

Great Car, Needs Some Upgrades

Best car I have ever driven

Fun to drive!

Efficient and Fast

Best luxury car ever

A true BMW 5 series competitor!! 2013 Lexus GS350 F-Sport

Watch out German stalwarts

So far so good

Nicest Car I've Ever Owned

Tested many, found the best in the GS

2013 GS350 AWD F Sport Rocks!

Good bye 5 series!

From RL to GS

GS 350 F AWD  - Awesome car 

Great sports sedan

Great Car

Best looking and performing IS yet!

IS 350

My IS-350

IS Fever

Zippy IS

IS 350

2006 IS 350 - Good, Bad and the Ugly

Best value for the money

So Nice

Hard to beat the whole package

sport :( or luxury :)

Great power, great comfort

Wow

It's a rocket

Best Bang for your Buck!

Worth Every Penny

This Car Rocks!

The performance of Lexus IS350 2009

A tank

This Is My Second Lexus GX

Get one before they are gone for good.

Best most comfortable suv

GREAT BUY!!!

Switched after 4 BMWs and a lot of problems

F-Sport package is worth the upgrade!

This is one of the best cars I have ever driven.

Upgrading from '06 to '14 IS 350

Will not buy another Lexus

Awesome blend of sport and luxury.

Great Exterior, Not so well designed Interior

Love my IS350

Great car, with a few exceptions

Quick!

2012 IS 350

Love the car!

Best car I've ever owned!

For the young at heart, no matter your age.

Smooth Operator

First Impressions

2010 Lexus IS 350 

Waited a long time for this

F Sport Love

Excellent ride!

Great Buy

Great Chassis Terrible electronics

Getting lost it a bummer

lexus gs350

Great for clear weather only.

Nice, fast, but not quiet

Downsized

Powerful and fast machine at great price

Wonderful Sport Sedan .....

IS 350 Review

Great Car at a Great Price

Lexus IS 350

Love it.

A four door "Corvette" with luxury

Dream Car 

IS350 Rocks

Good Bye Great Car

Derek's IS 350

Reasonable car

Good value for the money

Not so happy

Better than the IS 250.

What a ride

Good Car for a Soupy Ride

The Beginning of a Great Relationship

A Beast!

WOW!!!!

An Overall Champ

One of the Best

Just Keeps Running Like It Did on 10/15/07

Not too happy

A Great Compromise

Great!!

Outstanding sedan, best performance / $ 

Outstanding

2008 Lexus IS 350

A nice blend of luxury and comfort

Still more luxury than sports sedan.

BEWARE: squeaks and rattles!!

2008 IS 350 is awesome!

IS350!!!

Very fine vehicle

Pleasantly surprised

Navigation System

This car has too many rattles

Love this car!

Quite a different GS!

2013 GS 350 F sport AWD

2013 GS350

Love my GS 2013

NEW 2013 GS350 - DEFINITELY A VAST IMPROVEMENT 

Daily Driver Long on Adrenalin 

2013 GS 350 F Sport - Most fun to drive!

Picked GS 350 over A6 - tough by perfect choice!

F-Sport is the best 5-Series competitor ever...

2008 Lexus IS 350

I love my IS 350!

Fast sporty sedan

Should have gone with the 335i

Best car in class

Good - But Not Yet Ready

A good deal I didn't take

A Shark

Great car

A proper sports sedan

2015 GS350 F Sport

Great big bones.  POOR technology Package

Love my GS350

Love it

2015 GS 350 AWD Fsport

Right Mix of Luxury, Performance, and Reliability

Superb car

Beautiful, sporty car with a few things missing

Great car, had BMW beat

MPG a big problem!

Too many issues for the money

Windshield wipers

Miss My IS-350 but then I don't....

Poor highway speed handling

Wonderful luxury sedan!

Like a Magic Carpet

So-so audio

Awesome car

A nice, luxury car at a fair price.

2009 GS 350 - That's all I drive. 

Lexus of Ann Arbor and my GS350

I Love It, to my surprise

Puts the Mercedes 560 SEL to shame

I love this car

Fast and Beautiful

Nice commuter car

Great car - it will surprise you

Great Car - But...

Best sports sedan for the money

Nice Car, Not a Race car

Excellent but miss my SUV

Should have done it sooner!

Great Car!!!

Lexus Super Car

Luxury Dream Machine

My 3rd baby

Is a turbo -charged IS 200t right for you?

Hot red IS 200t

Love at first sight!

Tires Problems

Weird 3-4 second delay when accelerating...

Poor acceleration from a stop!

Loving my Lexus.

good value

Hot car

Better off with the IS350 if you can swing it

new 2016 GS 350 F Sport + Safety Package

IS200t blows away

2016 IS200T Seats = Backpain

FSPORT ROCKS

Slow Acceleration

Poor acceleration?? Learn to drive!

Defective Navigation System - 2016 Lexus GS 350

Third new GS!!! Love this car!!

Lexus GS 350

Great car.

Strong Recommendation

GS350 KRUAT SLAYER -

Handler

Very pleased with our GS

2014 and now 2016 GS Fsport owner

Upgraded to 2016 Lexus GS350

Love my GS350

Japanese mfg finally listening to consumers.

sporty luxury

Amazing!!!!

Great reliable vehicle in its own segment

Works well if your looking for something to keep

Second times the charm!

This is the best car in the world

Go Gita!

Hott

U GOTTA GET THIS CAR!!!!!!!!!!!!!

ANNOYING TRANSMISSION HESITATION

WOW!

Want BMW performance with reliability?

Amazing Car

good looking car

MAJOR fun car, minor complaints

Buying Another IS 350

Featuristic!

Its Amazing.

IS 350

The best

For the price, you can't do better.

Lexus Sports Wagon

Who's supposed to buy these things?

Lexus IS 300 or is it a Toyota? 

Amazing Car 

Looks good but has issues

Best Luxury Class SEDAN

Wind noise unacceptable, comfort disapp

What an excellent call never feel me

Best of the Class

Im in the car business and this is my 73rd car

Long way to become best car ever own

Better than Benz

When you Care Enough to Drive the Best

The Best Of 2007

Fun to Drive

LS 460L - Awesome

Not just another luxery car.

Better yet

The Best Car I ever owned

Silver LS 460

Best car I have ever owned!

A bargain, if twice the price

Second Lexus

EJM

1 Awesome Car

Thumbs Up to IS 300

IS 300 Great for the price

Perfection

On month 7

One of the Best RWD Car you can get

My Most Fun Car in 50 years!

I didn't know I could love a car so much

IS 300

Pearl. One of a kind

It's a Lexus afterall!

Fun on Wheels

solid investment

2005 IS300. What a car! Sporty and luxury

I wanted so bad to like this car!

Six months of wonderful

Dream car Disaster Lexus LS600 HL

Airplane on the road

The best luxury car for the price

High Expectations Fulfilled

Terrible gas mileage, no back seat room

Not impressed

Lexus IS 300 sport design

Don't Do It!

Solar Spectacular

Just got it

Love this car!

Worth every penny

As tight as the day it was new

Done Right

Love This Car!

My second IS and it's nice

Great Luxury compact car

Car doe not to start after sitting for a few days

It sits too low

great car but...

Happy Girl

Unusual Engine Sound, Vibration in front wheels

Great car

IS300 F Sport - stylish, fun, upscale

Cute little ride!

Hot driving car disappointment to geeks

2016 IS350 F Sport

Fun Car

Great looking car, terrible to drive

Is 350 f sport

Another Great LS 460

2008 Lexus LS460

My Lexus LS 460L

Excellent car

Great car

not perfect but i love it anyway

Best Large Luxury SUV Sold!

Buy the Toyota Land Cruiser Instead

Slip Slidin' Away!

Nice upgrade from previous model.

Love My Lex

What about that gas mileage?

Sporty 2016 RC200t

check it!!!

Hot looking car!

Same old stuff but worse

there is only 1 luxury SUV

remove 3rd row seats

The LX 570 is a TANK wearing velvet  gloves

cruiser

2013 Lexus LX570

Lexus LX 570

Cat's meow

Best vehicle i ever had

as good as it gets

Dont buy or lease this SUV for this PRICE !!!!!!!!

bumpy ride on my new LS, drives like a boat, bad gas milage.

Satin smooth!

2011 LS 460 AWD

Its harder to find a better car at any price

Wow.  Run (don't walk) away from this car.

Superior luxury and value

REGRET THE PURCHASE

Navigation problem

superior

A-1 Automobile

A Perfect Luxury Car

Crap!

last of the breed

Comfort and Quiet in a luxury package!

Perfect ; absolutely Perfect 

Awesome cruiser with AWD traction

AWD developed a major leak at 40K miles

Best Luxury Vehicle for the price

This is my 2nd LS

Great if it's what you expected

Honest Review of 2013 LS460 by Don

It Doesn't Get Better Than This

Analog clock

LS460 F SPORT

2009 LS460 AWD

Luxury and Reliability for Less

BUY IT...BUY IT!!!

Excellent Japanese Quality...

Great automobile and reliability

My New 2010 LS 460

Great Car

Perfect Car

Disappointing for the money

The LS 460 L

best car I have ever owned

More " Purrfect."

"Purrfect"

Go for it!

Squeaky Luxury

Superb car

LS 460

Squeaks and rattles

Best car I'd ever driven in my life!

2009 LS 460 AWD!!! Best decision!

Great ride for the money

'09 Lexus LS 460L   Love it

Feedback on LS460

I'm truly amazed

"The Best Luxury Car"

Truly amazing car!

My 3rd LS

Another Home Run

A Disappointing Update

Great car, but still has some issues

Bimmerman blown away by LS

08 LS460 - somewhat dissapointing

My first and last LS

Transmission noise

Broke

2008 LS 460

Overall great, needs a few improvements

Noname

Less Car than Earlier Model

A great car

FIrst Lexus

Disappointing

m,ost uncomfortrable seats I've ever sat on

not like old lexus's

Good experience!

Stopped Leasing to Enjoy luxury

Nx300h

Sporty drive option in NX 300h

It drives like a car.

New ES 350

I love this car

Pretty good, but...

Need more work

ES 350

Beautiful Design

Not totally happy

engine noise and A/C problems

2007 ES 350 Daily Driver

Steering shake & wobble at highway speed

Love/hate relationship

Lexus es350

Better than my BMW

Clean

Fourth Lexus owned

Worth the extra bucks

Not Quite Lexus Quality

Love  My ES 350

Pursuit of perfection? Please catch up.

The best value of any entry luxuary car

Love it!

Almost Perfect

Transmission Erratic

Pleasant Surprise

The Ultimate Luxury SUV

Buy a Lexus

A powerful and comfortable compact 7 seater

Loved my LR2, Really Love my LR4!

LR4 after 5000 miles

Extremely quiet and smooth riding

Best LR Yet - Lot of Vehicle for the $'s

A British tank with same fuel mileage

Love it so far

The good gets better

It's a head turner

Best SUV in class

Great Car

Buy it... if you love your service mngr

LR4 Rocks

This is an awesome car and goodlooking

Close to being perfect

Buyer beware. I tried to like it.

Almost Perfect

Issues

Third LR

Beware

2010 LR4 Lux Intermittent Electrical

Get to know your mechanic

The Best SUV I have Ever Owned

Luxury Plus Fun

Green Rover, Green Rover...

Different

Best Car I Could Have Hoped For

Tough 4x4

The best rover I ever knew!

tough to pass up at today's prices

ExpensiveRepairs

91 Range Rover

Care is reciprocated 

Urban Warrior

Classic

Road Trip in 2012 LR4   Summer 2016 Update

So far so good

A classic, Classic

THE best SUV ever

Best choice I could have made

Fantastic powerful ride

On Going Electrical Issues

2012 LR4 poor reliability, poor dealer support

LR3 vs LR4

2011 LR4

2011 LR4 HSE

6 Month Report

Far and away better than the competition

An Automobile with a Custom Fit

1st time LR buyer

LR 4 LUX

TMy 2nd Rover

Happier than ever

Love the LR4

Solid Performer

good suv,great 4x4,but still british!

Will treat you well if you treat it well

Rover Classic

Durning 1st Year of Ownership

Unbelievable

Sitting Pretty

Mistake

Rover Sport-Totally Unreliable

Great off road / often stranded on road

If you want to feel safe

Nothing looks like it, never will again.

Buyer Beware

The best 4x4xfar

RRS S/C 4 ME!!

Fun in the Snow

My supercharged rover!

Absolutely fantastic car !!! Beautiful lux used ca

Looks Great - Poor Quality

Dreams Can Come True!!! 

Ignore what people THINK about reliabilty, and listen to what they KNOW

Got One

Rose with a thorn

Range Rover Sport

Incredible Automobile.....

Look Forward to Driving

Just pure fun - AMAZING

Hot SUV

RRS replaced my X5 4.4i

Said Goodbye

From good to bad to worse...sad but true

Keep on rock-crawlin' in a free world

I dont recommend any Land Rover

Same Old Range Rover

Great ride

Making loud noise underneath

Sad to Go!

Great looking car

Road Runner

I'm Ridin' Dirty

So far, awsome!

Best car for its purpose

Luxury at a price

Greatest SUV ever built 

Outstanding Vehicle

Great SUV

Great SUV, but gas mileage is bad!

Best SUV for many reasons

Best LR i've owned/driven

So far so good

Best SUV out there

Don't waste your money ! 

Outstanding

Worst SUV ever

you get what you pay for

Electronic gremlins

Fortunately the lease is almost up

All Wheel Drive Bentley

Perfection in motion

2007 hse commuter, tow, family wagon.

So far so good

Nightmare.  Don't Fall for the Looks!

First time to buy RR SC so far so good.

In Love with LR4!

Organic Luxury

Review of 2016 LR4 Landmark

Four and Counting

Nicest car I've ever owned

Happy owner

The tie was perfect.

Comfortable Car that will allow you to blend in

LWB The Way To Go

An Expensive Investment

New Rover Owner

The Best 4x4xFar

Solid and basically reliable

Quirky but Cool!

Beautiful car

late 90s range rovers the best ever

Beautiful & Clever - The RANGE ROVER 

Great 4x4

Please, Please, don't WASTE your money 

Been Great!

Baby is her Name

awesome truck

Unhappy with my RR 4.6HSE

Great SUV at tremendous cost

Too expensive.....

Poor Reliability/Expensive repairs

Solid and Majestic

gotta love it

Traded my '98 4.6 after one year

Diamond in the Rough

Drivetrain / Transimission Breakdown

Get your wallet ready

2003 Range Rover

don't purchase... read on

Get ready to know your Service Manager

Overpriced Never Ending Nightmare

I Love It!

The Range Rover Should Look

Rova

Range Rover

Fantastic Car, but have a warranty

Have your money right

2003 Range Rover

I love it

ultimate British SUV!

MOUNTAIN ROVER

Problem every 2,000 miles.

Some owners need to understand.

Worst Car of all Time 

A beautiful can of problems

Overall very happy w/new 07 Range Rover

My Short-Lived Range Rover Experience

Land Rover Range Rover 2007

Best vehicle Ive ever owned

2007 Range Rover HSE

07 Range Rover

fun filled

Top range

Be Careful What You Ask For

HSE

2007 Range Rover HSE

beautiful car

Hey wht a car

beyond great

Great vehicle

Range Rover 2 year owner review......

She Delivers

Remember the Yugo?

Good to GO

Best you can drive north of Mason-Dixon

qualitty

Don't believe the (negative) hype

less than Lexus LX470

Taking a Risk

swiss army luxury vehicle

my rover

what a shshame!

Bought this junk to prove my daughter wrong 4/8/17

No comparison

Really Nice Car

The worst car I've ever owned!

Best luxury SUV

30,000 mile review

Love my 2007 HSE

Third time is the charm

Range Rover Supercharged

We were one of the lucky ones

Money pit

The Dichotomy of Land

DO NOT BUY A RANGE ROVER!!!

2005 Range Rover

Reliable Rover

DourResearch

Good but not great

Overpriced

Wouldn't buy one again

Looks are great but maintenance is poor

Looks are very deceiving 

king of the hill

a lot of problems

a great drive

Transmission & Radiator Issues Beware

buy walking shoes to

RIP OFF!!!

Buyer beware

Peter's Review

08 RR HSE

Waste time going back & forwd to dealer

LOVE it!

Beware

Not Worth The $

Love it

Awesome

Worth the Price

Absolutley Unreliable

Exceeds Expectations

08 Supercharged

My 2008 Range Rover a Supercharged Lemon

Love this thing

Best over

The Best Car I'ver Ever Owned

So far, so good!

Love My Rovers

Excellent to drive if not for twrrible problems

Horrible Reliability and Service

Love my Rover!

A nightmare wrapped in a prettty package.

range rover

Simply the best

There is nothing like THE Range Rova!

Worst car ever made!!!!

Love my FullFat Range Rover

150K Miles and completely reliable

Not all are bad

Rover is most reliable

Worst vehicle I have ever owned

Best SUV I have ever owned

The Best SUV I have Owned

Pleasantly Suprised...A Gem

The money pit of cars

The Most Realistic 04 Range Rover Review You Will Read

An Expensive Ride 

range rover

Mixed Bag

Stellar vehicle all the way around!

Not a good buy.

Expensive piece of junk!!!

my .02

Wow

The true King of SUV

Range Rover 2002 4.6

A complex work of art

Keep looking

great looks....terrible car!!!!!!!!

This is a SUV

I know but I still can't part with it

5 years no problems

Four years later

Keep looking!

Better Buy Two

Absolutely Great.....ITS A TRUCK!!!

WORTH THE BUCK

jealous

4.6 vogue

Be Prepared

Beauty and Beast

BE..............................Aware!!!.......

Love/Hate Relationship

worst SUV

Worse vehicle ever

BestSUVin the World

Pretty but Terrible Quality

status

Great vehicle

Luxury, I think NOT!

Love my Range Rover

98 range 

Been Lucky.

Chrome

Awesome SUV

So they do live up to their Reputation, atleat the 03-05

Great

Overpriced/Unreliable

Happy with the purchase

Be Aware

Rolling Lemon

Best 4X4 ever!

Hated it

long time owner

Exceeded Expectations

It's a great car if you have the funds

If you want to lead the pack...

You will get noticed!  Great 4X4

British Fun & Luxury

Don't make the mistake

The Worst Range Rover ever!

Awesom double R

2nd time is a charm

Love my HSE

Dont You Be Sorry

An Outstanding Choice

Its a Lemon

Definitely NOT worth it

There is a reason it's called a Rover

Worst Car Ever Owned

What a change

So far it's been a joy!

Never buy any other SUV

love hate relationship

Must Have Cash Reserves

1999 4.0 SE Still Excellent

Like wearing a tux

Problem after problem

Unique set of wheels

Great vehicle, nothing else like it.

Never again

Horribly overpriced with poor cupholders

highs and lows

Met Expectations

After 16 years of ownership.

Must be "hands on" owner!

Awkward, expensive, and unreliable!

Best  SUV vehicle that money can buy.

Happy with 1996 Range Rover

Most beautiful SUV.

Fantastic ride, glad its gone

 Great Car, but Expensive to Maintain

The Best SUV Avaliable 4X4XFAR

Nerer Again

Great Style, Truly Horrible Reliability

Nice--but, no Cigar

Urban assault vehicle

Awesome off-road... Terrible reliability

Too nice to off road?

Once Bitten, Thrice Shy

"P" OFF

I like it much more than I thought 

97 4.6 HSE

RANGES ROVERS SUCK

Loved this car

City Range Rover 2000 SE

Fun in a Range Rover

Better than expected reliability.

4.6 HSE, Love it!

4.6 HSE

A Classic

learn from my mistakes

An Unmitigated Disaster

Pleasure to Drive

Range Rover great visibility and comfort

great car when it works

Hey it's a Range Rover

love this suv

97 Range Rover 4.6 HSE Review

Great car if you like high pitched whistles

2nd Land Rover

It would be great if it worked 

All other vehicles pale in comparison 
The best SUV out there

1995 Land Rover Range Rover LWB

Long term 1995 classic owner

1995 Range Rover LWB County Classic

1995 Range Rover SWB County

1995 was a bad year for the Rover

1995 Range Rover SWB County Classic 3.9L~A great Rig!

Family Favorite Since 1995

Range Rover 4.0 SE

200,000 and still going strong

Range Rover is Land Lemon

245,000 miles and still strong

King of the SUV by Far

1995 Range Rover LWB - Best All-around

Looking For a New One!

Leaked oil in first month

Crazy in love

Elegant Beast

Love hate relationship

Good Car

Let's try this again!

Buyer beware of Maint cost

disappointment

Range Rover Autobiography Surprises

not satisfied

Haven't bought yet but...

Fantastic First Car

8 months into ownership

Rover needs to step up electronics!

Great look and feel, not worth the price

Four Months into Ownership

2015 RRS Supercharged

Wow! Amazing Best car I ever owned

2012 Range Rover Evoque Dynamic 4 Door

Finally a car that does everything

LoveMyEvoque

Love mine, with reservations

Land Rover Evoque 6sp manual diesel

Evoque's all senses

Great Crossover!

Love driving this car

Perfect fit

Love to Drive

Sexy, multi functional SUV

Traded my Carrera S for more fun.

A real stinker

Evoque Dynamic 4 Door

My personal warning to all

Luxury at its best

Horrible company who does not value their customers!

2013 rrs hse

Best SUV I've owned

Great Leap Forward...

Unbeatable at almost any price

Briefly

After the initial love affair is over she'll bleed you to death

RRS Supercharged Dynamic is a lot of hype

Supercharger in Samana

Problems from the start

A waste of your money!!!

This car meets all of my high expectations...so far!

The Best SUV and Sport Car 

So far, so good !

A true SUV, with a Punch!

Knee Problems but overall great car

Best Range Rover Sport Ever!

Best vehicle EVER!

A great SuV with classic style

Wonderful 2010 RRS has crown waiting

Happy So Far

Nice All Around

What the RRS should always have been...

It's a Beast

Fun to Drive when everything works

I love mine!

No Trust

Amazing, Nothing like the RRS 2010

Great SUV.

best and worst of rr sport

I love the RRS supercharged

Puzzled?  

Made the switch and love it!

Slow electronica

Very poor service

Best vehicle I've ever had

na

Not Worth The Money

Problems after Problems

My dream has turned into a nightmare!

Worst Electrical Ever

Worst Car Company Ever

Love the car - Hate the constant service needs

I love this vehicle!

Surprisingly Happy!!

Beautiful to drive, frustrating to own.

not tired of it yet

Loving my 2016 Range Rover Sport Td6 (Diesel)

My new Range Rover Sport

Overall good first impression

Early high priced maintenance awaits you.

My Cell Plays Better Audio

Luxury economy suv

Monster powerful SUV

5 months and 5k miles

Still has reliability problems

Super all around vehicle, maybe built more for those who go off road...

I Love My Range Rover

Not Worth the Money

In the shop within a month of purchase!!

Reliability issues persist and horrible gas mileage

Best SUV

Awesome Vehichle Horrible technology

if you hit new range rover 2013  you may be waiting for over month to get it repaired - No parts

SUV that Drives like a sports car!

Great SUV!

Beauty truly is only skin deep

Super Charged Range Rover

Trouble free 2010 Range Rover HSE

Getting Most out of a Range Rover

2010 Range Rover Super Charged! Amazing!

Extrememly satisfied

Special car

Worst car ever

Love the looks.

2012 200CT

2012 CT200H Follow up review, 76k

F-Sport not comfortable

Excellent Car

Better than I expected

UP hill/ steep grade  // Boggess down

I am in love with this car

This is a great car!

Hot hot hybrid

Son crashed my car- 6 airbags saved his life

Review of the Lexus ES 350

Would be a return customer

I'm in love with my ES 350

'08 ES 350 Ultra

Sticky catalytic converter

My ES350 experience

Outstanding Vehicle

Out-of-Date GPS Data

Expected a better car

Luxury

I Hate The Expresso Woodgrain

High end luxury; low end price

Couple Minor Annoyances

Great car but

ES2010: Very good so far

Awesome

What a disappointment

Be Cautious of the Interiors

Great car

Radio is horrible

Best ES By Far

Toyota Lexus quality slipping

Love

Ride in style

Great vehicle

Love this Car

Love our Lexus

So Far, Excellent

Great Value for Luxury

Great Car Overall! 

So far I LOVE everything about it

Smoother than Silk

Great VALUE

Lexus Is The Way To Go!

No Problems at 165,000 miles.

Wonderful car...minus audio experience.

Lexus ES 350 Is A Strange Car

So far I'm enjoying the car

Suburban Dads' Performance Car

HATE This Car

Great Car

Bullet Proof

what's not to like?

Beautiful car but - Navagition system has to be fixed

Satisfied

Lexus ES Fine Automobile!

Falling behind

It's like riding on air!

improvement of the perfect car with awd

After 5 BMW5 series-Why I changed

simply the best

Lexus versus Camry

It is a great car in most all aspects except

Very disappointed for this ES350.

makes you feel like the most interesting man in the world

An Honest Reliable Review of Lexus ES350, $44,592

The blue thunder

You Must Drive This Car

2013 ES350 Silver/Black

Love this baby

A 30-year-old guy buys ES 350?

Great car!! Beware of wheels with respect ride

what's not to like?

An excellent buy!  Voice functions need improvement

All is good, but GPS sucks.

Imperfect Lexus Quality

Great car,but could use a little height

Four Times a Winner

Love it compared to competition.

My Lexus Experience

My first Lexus

the new ES 350 : how can the best be better ?

Great car sans the rattles

Lucky to be alive

Relentless Pursuit of Perfection

Lexus .....now the best car I've ever owned

Exceeds expections

WATCH OUT FOR THE PAINT

Great highway mileage

Amazing Car

2012 ES 350 is a solid value

All Around A Great Experince

Reliable comfortable,and quick!

lexus Es is very good

Don't Buy the Nav System - ES350 (2012-16)

2012 ES 350 :  Last of the Run

Great investment!

Nothing Like a Lexus

Just what we were looking for!

Brakes do not work

Better Than My RAV4!

ES 350 - Best car, Best value

AWESOME RIDE

Great vehicle especially downsizing from 2 V8's

ct / Compact Touring 200h

Pimped out Prius

2011 Lexus ES350

Sweet and Smooth ES

luxury that comes cheap

TREMENDOUS : 2011 ES 350 awd sedan 

2011 ES350 review

Gorgeous car!

You get what you expect

Great Car but no Bike Hitch fits

Great mileage car. Sporty looks

Nice-- VERY SMALL

Kinda disappointed 

Great Ride - Great Car

Third Lexus

Small nitpicks in a near-perfect car

0 complaints... coming from an Audi A6

my lexus saved my life

2008 Lexus ES350 engine troubles

Delilah D'Lexus that's what I named her!

Like other first-time Lexus owners, disappointed

Rolling Valium

Great car

Great Vehicle

This car will not disappoint

CT200h

Lexus comfort and great mpg!

just be honest with yourself.....

Just what I expected, and then some

A Prius with a whole lot of style

Love my Ct200h

Love This Car-Done With Big SUV's

Luv it Luv it

If this one dies I'll buy another.

Lexus comfort and great mpg!

CT 200h is close to perfect

Rolling jewelry 

First and last Lexus

Attention Grabber

Homework & test drive only

CT 200H F Sport... Love It!

2013 Long Term Review - 55,000 miles

Great Hybrid

It grows on you... big time

As long as you know that its a Hybrid

All a Matter of Perspective

CT 200h w/Nav (2014)---Fun to Drive---

I love this car so much, I just bought a new one to replace my 2011

Can't go wrong with the CT

Cool looking and fun to drive

Why did I ever leave?

Fun to drive

Sometimes a car is better than you think it's going to be

Wow, what a great little car.

 Loving My 2011 Lexus CT200H ~!

Great hybrid - don't expect "sportcar" performance

This Isn't A Sports Car...It's A Sporty Car with Great Mileage and Comfort

CT Finally Arrives

Great suv

Toyota Hybrid drivetrain w/o the Prius looks

F-Sport Special Edition a blast to own!

An honest review on the ct200h

Love this Car!!

Better MPG than advertised

CT 200h Lexus 2012

Stylish well built car, not suitable for families!

Great MPG

Outstanding Car

48 MPG !

Bluetooth Nightmare

So far so good!

Do not buy!!

Stylish SUV

Not that impressed ! 11 month update!

A Ford Escape wearing a dinner jacket.

Don't buy this car!!!

Lemon?

Love my Evoque 

Range rover evoque 2014 premium

i love my range rover!

My princess is very cute

If you want to throw you're money away - buy one!

Best small SUV ever! Style and Fun!!

Unique SUV Makes a Good Pick 4 me

Worst car I have ever bought

My Rocket Car

Unreliable Slug

Hands Down Safest SUV

I expected so much more!

Lemon

Disappointed

Best SUV ever

Unique, stylish and fun to drive

Great Looks, HORRIBLE TRANSMISSION

Don't Buy!

Buyer Beware (!)

Bad quality product

Happy with car

My city car

Nice looking car but underpowered

Sleeper Sports Hatch

Sporty and gas thrifty

Navication missing

Love it!

Underpowered!!!!

Range Rover vs. Porsche Macan

After much deliberation, I'm happy with my Evoque!

Beautiful vehicle but oh the poor reliability

Don't be fooled by the good looks!

an awesome car but awful GPs

Not the Bells and Whistles of a 350 or 450

Enjoy So Far

Love the 300h

Waited a year for the NX to arrive

Beautiful Little SUV Hybrid

NX 300h: Fun, efficient and sharp

SUV that gets 30mpg and can handle like a car!

2016 Lexus ES 350

Smooth ride

What's missing?

Our third Lexus

My new Car

first 9 months with Lexus ES350

ES350 best all around car

I like it

Redesigned 2016 Lexus ES 350 Luxury Package

Review after first week

Pay Less for More

Great all-around car

Sleek and sporty

Could be a forever car

Lexus ES 300H

Why I purchased my Lexus ex350

Good car but no soul

Lexus - December to Remember

Unhappy with  2016 Lexus es350 Rides like a truck

Headrest issues prevent a sale!

Disappointed

transmission problems

2014 ES350 disappointing on the Inside

Great car.

Awesome Ride!

Falls short

Everything but the "New Car Smell"

On my fifth ES

Poor Ride, Noisy and Cheap Finishes!

Not like previous ES cars

Three transmissions!

Buyer Beware

I feel betrayed

Lemon from the factory

great suv

Quality is horrid

Great car

Just leased 2014 ES350

Nice car

Lexus 350ES GREAT BUY

Ultimately regretful

195K and still going strong

Based on 90,000 miles, and 6 years of

Jeep upgrade

Not a good experience

Cheap (really!) components

Wonderful SUV

Would buy it again if not for transmission issues

Acura MDX Touring w/Entertainment

Quality

Great reliable commute car

Wife loves it, but I think it's over rated....

Two Lexus ES300h Great gas mileage

MARK LEVINSON IS WORST EVER!

Lexus ES300h

Amazing car

watch the tranny it's a KILLER!!!!!!!!!!

Saving My life

Love it!

Excellent Car, will only buy an MDX

Great Ride Except for Transmission

Better than my 3 grand cherokees

Documented transmission problems

110,000 miles and still going strong

Transmission Problems

Great SUV

Disguised minivan

MDX review

Very satisfied

disappointed

Acura MDX 2001

pdxmdx

wow, what a great SUV!

'01 MDX Touring Navi

Second Trans Bites the Dust

I'd buy another X

It's the ultimate driver's machine

I LOVE this car!

Great SUV

Pleased

Thinking of an '03 Acura MDX?  Run Away!!!!!!

I love my MDX

2 yr 3 month ownership (happy)

Keeps on going

TRANSMISSION

Great Vehicle for Shopping & Road Trips

Great Vehicle, needs updating

Sierra Hotel - Great Vehicle

Awesome Drive - Love it

Still Love My Acura!!

Too noisy, never an Acura again

Love this car!!

never again!!!

Poor Fuel economy

Love my MDX!

Love it

Don't believe the MPG estimates!

recommend it!

Best value for the money paid

Great work horse

What a great car!!

Car Man's Best Car

Good long term buy!

Absolutely the best mid SUV available

Amazing Vehicle!

Great after 4 years

Extended warranty

A piece of feces wrapped in gold

Rear main seal - transmission

Rides like a go-cart 

Wow!! Amazing, Best of All, AWESOME!!!

A driver's SUV

Acura RL on Steroid

My First Acura Vehicle

Absolutely love it!

Snow machine! 

2007 Acura MDX

2007 Acura MDX Base Model

This SUV may be "just right"

Good Value SUV

Great SUV

Best Vehicle I've Ever Owned

Built Just For Me

2005 Acura

Loved this SUV

Transmission issue

Great SUV.

Noise between 35 and 40 mph 

Very nice but not without headaches

another great Acura vehicle

Germany meets Japanese SUV

07 Loaded MDX

Best Performing SUV for the money!!

Best in Class!

Fantastic vehicle, but a few quirks...

Think b4 you buy your next Acura 

someone will sue Acura

Lots of mechanical issues

Transmission vibrates/grinds at 35-40 mph

a

Love my Acura!

Yes , the transmission is a problem

'05 MDX

Trouble with transmission

TRANSMISSION

Excellent car to own and drive

Bad Humming Noise

Nice Vehicle

Don't buy

Honda is Plastically Challanged!

Impressive on a budget!

400k miles strong

BEST BANGS FOR THE BUCKS

Great car but some repairs required

Affordable luxury SUV

185,000 Miles and still going strong!

Acura MDX - Transmission ISSUES - BEWARE!!!

Acura knows it transmissions so don't buy them to support their mistakes

Love This Ugly Car

210K miles - going strong - paid for itself

167k and still running strong, sold at 204k

2002 Acura MDX Touring

decent car...Terrible transmission

Best SUV

I have better cars.

BEWARE: Bad Transmissions

LOVE LOVE LOVE this 2002 ACURA MDX TOURING

Don't be a Dummy from 3 Transmissions

Great Car!

Transmissions

Worried after reading......

2004 MDX reliable after 100,000

It's the best SUV

Just hit 170k miles and very reliable

A great SUV

I really enjoy it 

A little old ladies darling

Very Happy With Purchase So Far

The wonder car

02 MDX

Transmission blew at 170K.

3's a Charm

great choice

Why do the rotors need turning after 3000 miles??

My favorite car to date!

You can always get what you want

Have enjoyed this car even more than I anticipated

Love the car so far!

My First Lexus

300h

Tons of "Normal" Defects

A great car

Most uncomfortable Lexus I have ever owned

first 300 miles - very poor mpg

jala201

Excellent luxury hybrid!

Extraordinary Hybrid

Lov'n this car

great

Great gas mileage!!

Great Car with Disappointing MPG

Lexus surprises me again

Absolutely Wonderful Car

All I expected but . . . 

Honest car owner feedback

Unique model with some minor shortcomings

About what I expected

First time Lexus and Hybrid Owner - former "German-Only" car buyer

Not as quiet as ES model

Love Everything, EXCEPT...

Honestly love this car

First time hybrid owner

Baby on board 

Front driver seat is bad

After 4 years, finally found the car we wanted...

Rumble and grumble, never fixed and @Lexus never

Not a car, badly integrated collection of features

Lexus equals excellence

Too firm, too hard, UGH!

Well-Rounded Comfort, Performance & Value

Luxurious feeling ride.

2015 Lexus ES350 

Not Your Child's Car

Nice Ride

It is a Toyota with below par electronic

Over-Hyped

Certified

Ultimate Crafted Line

Lexus ES 300h v. Avalon Ltd hybrid

Inflated advertised MPG

Leg room kinda tight

Comfortable Car - Promised Mileage NOT Obtained

Hybrid Review

Important read if shopping or analyzing reviews...

Transmission issue

5th ES 350, Best yet.

Best Es yet

Good But not the best

Love the car!

Lots to love, but some disappointments as well

Great Car, Great Mileage

Nice but not nice enough for the $

Great car for the money

Failed from 2nd week and no repair

manager

Fun, Practical, & Capable!!!

D I S C O  F E V E R

Awesome ride!!!

Discovery Sport 2016

Despite the bad reviews we love our 2016 Discovery

4 months In - updated

Three things

Low Quality Craftsmanship

Discovery Sport 2016 a winner for the driver!

Luxury Name with Hyundai feel

Land Rover Discovery HSE - New to Brand

Everything but the Acceleration

Very Happy I got this

Acura doesn't stand by product

Poor Acura Quality

Not worth the money

Excellent Value for the money

 Worst new car experience I've ever had!

Best Handling SUV I Have Ever Driven

Great sporty SUV

Rear end thump/squeak noise 

A great car

Great car

Touch choice

Update after 9 months

Super Handling AWD

Great CUV overall

Great Handling Plus Super Navigation System

SH-AWD Will Make Everything Better

Back to lexus

60K and still loving it!

2008 MDX tech

Brake Rotor Problems

Nice ride, but-------------

Disappointed about my dream car!

Great family SUV.

Nissan Sales Manager Hung Up On the MDX

Another quality Acura product

My expectations were higher

Noisy Car for the money

Great value for money

Great luxury midsize SUV

Honda disappoints!

Solid Choice, very good vehicle

A nice upgrade from the Pilot

My first, but definitely not my last Acura!

All good

Acura MDX 2011

This Car Eats Oil

one minor hitch, but great now

Acura Puts the "Sport" in an "S"UV

2010 vs 2009

Simply the best SUV

My mom drives a sports car

Torque converter issue

Top of the Line

Love it

A little disappointed

Great new design

Good car for the price

2017 Acura Mdx

Fuel Door does not sit flush and ruins the lines.

Great SUV for price

2017 MDX

Nice ride but cheap backup camera

2017 MDX

You will love your Acura MDX

No service parts available

safe, but no acceleration, noisy steering

Much improved over 2014 MDX

Is this really a Honda

My new 2017 MDX

Paid over 50 grand for a LEMON

Best of all car's I've owned, including S500

Thunder

Great car!

Great relief!!!

2017 Acura MDX Improved Looks-Solid Performance

Questionable reliability

New and nice

Best out there in its class [for now]

Great SUV

Disappointed

Overall, a great vehicle

Acura 2009 MDX Sport AWD

Worst I have qwned

The MDX is simply the Best Crossover

Update afetr 6500 miles

It's on the inside what matter

Acura flagship model dropped the flag

Thermometer/AC problem

My last Acura

Mostly satisfied.

Very Pleased with my Choice!

Huge disappointment!

Very good vehicle

Great Vehicle at a Reasonable Price

Almost got everything right

Great Car, Fun to drive

ILX 2016 model

Awesome Entry Luxury

Issues with infotainment

18 months- 40000 miles

Poor visibility in rear

A Nice SUV ripe with electronic issues - Too bad really

GPS and Bluetooth are unsable- get a base model

beware the 19 in wheels

Forever an Acura Guy

Bad Transmission

GPS sucks!

7 months into MDX AWD w/ tech - Using everything

2015 MDX Tech Package- AWESOME!

Very quiet - drives like a car...

Excellent for its price & quality

Swing and a miss

Not as thrill asi thought to be

More for the money!!

Bells and Whistle Galore!

Hard to Categorize

I love it

Best Value - Entry level luxury sedan

Bought 2 in one year

Deserves one more star but please read it.

ILX Tech pack.

I LOVE this car!

My second Acura ILX

Solid Commuting Car

Maybe not a German killer but one heck of a value

Acura ILX Impressions after first month

Happy with my Acura ILX after 4000 miles

So excited to buy my new Acura ILX

Polished metal metallic/Parchment Premium Pkg.

Very satisfied

Pleasantly Surprised!

IN LOVE WITH THIS CAR!! ITS A HEAD TURNER!

Dream car

2013 Acura ILX Hybrid w/ Tech Package

Surely NOT just a "glorified Civic"

Driving this car to work everyday....

best deal in town if you do your homework

Go fast with looks

Getting 43 Mpg on daily commute

Excellet Commuter Car

New to me ILX

An Excellent Car!

Peppy Hybrid that Turns Heads

My ILX is a great car

Great entry level luxury car

Amazing Car!

Noisy as heck !

What you expect from the driver's seat isn't what this $31k Civic delivers.

Second hand ILX 2.4L 6MT

There's more to life than horsepower!

Excellent Commuter Car

Excellent Value!

Fun little car

Reliable and luxurious

Great performance and great value

I absolutely love this car!!! Best car purchase I have made. 

Great Alternative to Boring Commuter Cars!

Ignore the automotive writers and just drive one yourself

Love it

Love our 2014 MDX

Best car I ever owned

Poor Customer Service - I will NEVER buy another!

Last Honda I will ever buy

Really wanted it to be good. But it's not

Build quality is poor for a premium SUV

UPDATED REVIEW w/MILEAGE DATA

Complete junk!

Best Luxury in his class.

Sporty and Comfortable

Best in Class

Best value

BUYER BEWARE*WORST CONUMER RELATIONS EVER!

Great car, lousy Nav/Ent/Voice System

Disappointed 

The Ususal Well Built Honda

Timing belt issues with a 2009 MDX 

Huge mistake!

Not what I expected from Acura

What a machine

Even better! A keeper!

TOO MANY DEFECTS IN 1ST YEAR

Not a luxury SUV anymore!

Don't Buy until driver's Window Noise Fixed

Beware of noise (VCM or modulator?)

Great value and decent features

Switched from a Volvo xc60 for the sake of comfort

Not Luxury Car Quality

Buyer Beware...

What are they thinking?

Traded down to Trade up!

Enjoying my first SUV

My "New" 2012 MDX - 2k miles so far

Acura MDX 2012 Advance+Entertainment

2012 Acura MDX w/ tech package at 2,000 miles

Worst SUV/auto I have owned

Favorite vehicle I've ever had!

The Golden Retriever of Luxury SUV's

You won't be disappointed! Great handling SUV!

235,000 miles

First Acura...Impressed!

Great reliability fun to drive

A Welcome Change

2nd MDX

Caveat Emptor

2016 MDX vibration

Transmission Failed at 5,000 miles

6,800 miles, new transmission required?!

Vibrations!

Jerky Transmission + Clunky Shifting =  last Acura

After 2 months...Love this MDX!

The vehicle that's gone from great to a total dud

Not what I had hoped for $50,000+

2016 Acura MDX AWD

Great Vehicle with Terrible Infotainment

Wife's 2016 Acura MDX with SH-AWD Advance

They just can't get it right

This SUV almost got us hurt

Terrible Transmission

First Acura MDX

Would Love IT Except...Horrible Transmission

Dealer invoice is BS!  Love my 2016 AWD Acura MDX!

2016 MDX Vibration Part II

I love my new 2016 MDX !

Great, responsive car. Terrible interface.

So glad I decided to lease!

Great ACURA MDX

Love my new car!

BEST SUV IN THE CALSS

Satisfied with my Purchase

Great Vehicle for Price

Sport Ute that Leans Towards Sport

Acura MDX Review

Best value

WOW!!! 

Best 7 Seater Luxury SUV

Simply Awesome

MDX with Tech Package

Heated Seats

2011 MDX Advance

Great choice for nexus of features / function / value

2011 MDX BASE..GREAT !!!!!

Aggressive styling, great value & a blast to drive

Impressive

Good Value and Lots of Gadgets

Transmission harness didn't even make 75K miles

Not Impressed

MDX transmission issues

Transmission Cycling will cause performance delays

Third MDX, Best Yet

MDX torque converter failures

The Best SUV Period!

Transmission failed at 45000 miles

A new Dud

Regressing but still worthy

Best Japanese car out there!

Fantastic Entry Level Luxury Vehicle

Love it Love it Love it

Great Car, But........

Nice Automobile

So good I just traded for 2012

Incredible

A stylish work-horse!

2 plus years of love

Lincoln has it going!

My Little Smoothie

Worth considering

Wonderful MKZ

is there a ford in your future ?

Surprise

Great Car

First time experience with Lincoln

navigating navigator

THE GATOR

Nice Ride

off the hook

Solid and reliable

New Lincoln Owner

An Excellent Luxury Mid Size Sedan

2008 MKZ AWD

luxury meets affordable

I'll never buy anything else

unreliable car

POOR CRAFTSMANSHIP

Kia Rio

it's great!

My Putt Putt

SHOULD HAVE NEVER MADE THIS CAR

Love My Kia!

Basic Transportation

BECAREFUL

Greate Commute Car

the navve

Great Navi

DAMN GREAT SUV NO BETTER THAN THIS

Luv To Drive a Big SUV

Relaxing

Makes Every Mile Count with a Bit of Fun

Last small car

Try and find a part

Buying a used Rio

Kia Rio - TIMING BELT FAILURE low miles!

2009 Lincoln MKS 4dr AWD

MKS great car

New MKS

First 180 days

love that mks

Kia Good and Bad

Rio

Love It!

My Kia

Rio Cinco

Love my Rio!!!!!

The Little Rio That Could

120,000 and still running great  

vegas daily driver

2002 Rio Wagon

Way to go Kia!

Honda Killer

You get what you pay for

seeking college students

You get what you pay for

A lot for the money

Friends don't let friends buy KIA's...

WORST CAR EVER 

Worth for the price car

Great little car

Beware the timing belt

AWESOME!!!!!!!!

Mmmmhmmm  I love it!

Take That! Oil Barons

Not Happy with this Buy

thrown rod-86ed engine

Worst mistake ever made!

Beater.

My Car

Great car for a great price.

So far, So good

Excellent

could be a cool car

Happy mom and kids

Great Value

Not worth the money

What a Disappointment

Trade offs

Kia CAN be reliable

2001 Kia 

Not bad for a 14 year old Korean Sedan

Never Ever again

Better choices await...

"Engine Light"

2001 Kia Optima SE V6

so far kinda happy

Please be aware

Don't even think about it...

Get What You Give

Fairly Happy

IT IS NOT WORTH THE MONEY

What a car!!

I Love my Kia Optima

Great Car

good car

Great car for the money

Can't complain

Good car for the money

Kia Renee

Take off and drive.

NO regrets

Dangerous car

not too happy

Ki-eh!

Watch the Warranty

Not the best

The service is the problem not the car

Buy american

NICE CAR

good looks great value

Former Sales Person

Car from Hell

Optima = Affordable Luxury

Kia is a deathtrap.

Never been happier!

2002 Optima

Awesome car

The Car that will surprise you

Great Car

Awesome!

2003 Kia Optima SE V6

Great Ride

Great Used 2003 Optima

You Get What You Pay For

If I could only have a do over...

Life saver

Great car - couple small issues

Optima has been a good car

Worst Nightmare

Excellent V-6 Value

Not a bad car.

the meaning of the word value

I love my Kia Optima

Just bought my Optima

Great Car for the Money

I love my little car.

Rio Timing belt problems

not bad, really..

Good car

Not bad at all 

The Kia Rio is a Great Deal

That Engine Don't Burn Straight

my experience

3rd Kia

FIRE 

5-ATAR???????????????

Great Car

good little car

Dangerous

Pretty Terrible

Fine Piece of Machinery

The Lemon I bought ...

Disappointed.

Nice, inexpensive little car

VERY smart purchase.

Great car for budget minded people

Good Running Car

Love My Rio

Good no frills putter

2003 Kia Rio

Miss my wagon

Great economy car very dependable.

I LOVE my Kia Rio

Great little car.

Never again

Good Vehicle for it's Price

I Love My Kia Rio Because It's Cheap

Very Happy with This Car

My red hot kia rio

Mixed feelings. Under-rated, but I won't buy a Kia again.

The Ideal Town Car

trouble free miles

Loooooove this car!!

Favorite car in 40 years of driving

R E L I A B L E ! ! !  Exactly what I needed.

Niro is a hero

Niro EX w Tech Pkg is an awesome car

Can't score everything just yet...

Jury still out on this one!

Missing storage

Just Keeps Getting Better

Solid

You take the good, you take the bad...

Little more thought would go a long way

The best of 52 cars I've owned. 

Are you kidding me?

Much potential. Disappointing craftsmanship.

Great Car - No Reliability Issues - Fast

A beautiful piece of junk

I wish I never bought it.

ELECTRICAL PROBLEMS, ETC.

Sweet ride for long drives

The Hybrid New Kid in Town

Flawed operational system in Niro

bummer

So far so good

64 MPG COMBINED!!!!!

Pleasant Surprise!

Excellent Purchase for the money

Love this car

BEST VEHICLE I EVER OWNED

Niro

Love it

Kia Rio

Reliable car

Should have bought a bicycle

biggest waste of four years of payments

Love my Little Car

Problem child

Careful

Good first car

No real complaints

Love my Hot Rod Lincoln

Outstanding car

Lincoln MKS with Ecoboost

Not Your Typical Lincoln

My first Lincoln - pleasure to drive

The Ford Linclon Mercury Car

Love Hate Relationship

keep fixing it

A disaster

90 Lincoln California

The Best car value on the market

Best Car ever owned

MKS rocks but Quality is Not Job 1

Love My New MKS

My new MKS

Lincoln Lemon

I love my hunk of junk......

A real owner of a 1990 continental

Expensive to own

lincoln luxury

2010 MKS

Sweet ride

Have you driven a Lincoln lately?

Torque of the town

Beautiful Car but get the warranty!

New (gently used rather) MKS for Me

Luxury and great road car for reasonable price

My Lincoln Is Better Than Your Review

EXCELLENT value

90 days and happy

Real Word Review of the 2010 Lincoln MKS

Best Car I have ever owned.

I just love my MKS

MKS Ecoboost - American Luxury is Fun again!

Fantastic ride!

Stay Away

Best Experience Ever

Suprisingly Sporty

1998 Nav Still Going Strong - Smoothly

My Gator

The best

Overall Overview

Stay Away!

Sometimes the First ones are the Best

The best Luxury SUV Ever

Love my Navigator

Good made Better

Hmm? New minivan or used 'gator

Fast and Luxurious

I Love This Car!!!

Hot MKZ

Happy owner

Never again

2008 MKZ FWD

Lincoln-USA

I bought it after the 39 month lease

Great car for the money

No better entry level luxury car.

Serious Contender

puts the Japanese in the dirt.

07 AWD

Nothing Stops My MKZ

I repectfully disagree on smoothness....

Best Auto Owned

The "AUTO TO OWN" for 2007!

Still solid after 9 years

COOL CAR!

not perfect but very good !!!!

Dependable Car 

Poor Choice

Not Worth it

Not THAT Impressed...

Best in class

Kia Optima

Silver Bullet

I love my Kia

Under-estimated Jewel

Kia Optima  ALi 

problems, problems

I'm a Kia Fan!

You've got to be kidding me!!!

Low Trade in 

Great Car - not as good gas as 2006 1/2

Is that a Lexus?

Reliability could get 6 stars

The Drive Home Was Fun

08 Kia Optima (silver)

Terrific car

the optimal optima !

Lots of fuss, not so much muss

2016 Kia Optima, boom, you'll love this car

Very nice

Wish We Had Bought Two

The Power To Surprise!

Kia Optima

Very  Happy With My KIA

Comfortable car

ehh

Good so far...

Not perfect, but close

95% as good as the leaders for less $$$$

love my "killer kia"!

5.5 Months since Purchase

Buy American not Korean

My Greatest Mistake

Decent car 

very dependable

BEWARE!!   Don't buy a Kia Optima

Been a great little car...

Concerned about the reviews here

Pretty nice, but flawed

Read This Review Before Purchasing

Avoid At All Costs

Great Car

Great Car LOW PRICE

Not half bad

I love my Optima

Great little car, reliable.

Impressed

As good as anything in its class.

Must check it out!

Excellent Value

So far so good!

Great Start...a few nitpicks

Automatic Transmission Failure at 3600 Miles

2011 Optima SX Turbo

Greatest car on market!

Very Impressed

My First NEW CAR!!!! EX with Premium Package.

Bought a 2011 SX fully equiped

3rd updatre

The Optima ROCKS!

Quite the stunner, but only time will tell.

Great plug-in Hybrid!

I made the right choice

best plug in out there

2015 kia optma

Love my new ride!

Optima LX /w ConvPackPlus

I love my kia optima

Great car

All is good other than the UVO/Nav that wont power

i went from a Kia EX loaded to the LX

One of the best cars I've ever owned

Great car for first time buyers!! :)

Very Happy So Far

an optimal automobile

More than I expected from a new mid-sized sedan

very pleased after 6 months

My 1st Kia

2015 Optima Engine Failure!!!

Super fun SXL sport sedan connects with road in comfort and style at reasonable price!

warrenty issues

Who'd have thought???

2013 KIA Optima SX

Best Kept Secret on Highway

Seats are horrible & not comfortable

Love the seats

This thing has 4 wheels and an engine!

Best Deal and pleasent suprize

KIA Voids the Warrnaty where ever possible

Never thought I'd own a Kia

Kia Optima SXL 2.0 Turbo Blown Engine

Great car, but you have to buy a spare tire.

False MPG, but lovely car

Fabulous car for money!!

Excellent car, comfortable and quiet

Gas Milage 

GORGEOUS!

Great car!

WAY impressed with this car!

And the winner is?

Loving my Optima so far.

Wow... Kia

2012 EX Amazing

so far so good

You get what you pay for

Amazing value for the money

Update -- Better than Expected

Ran great for 2 years and now problems

Great car so far

Sooooo HAPY I bought this OPTIMA!

Love my car!

Love my optima

Great Car

Love the car - hate the Infinity NAV

Very pleasantly surprised

The Power to Surprise.  This is a Kia?!

Fine car with a couple of odd quirks

it does'nt get much better

2012 Kia Optima SX

WOW!!  It is a KIA!!!!  

Update on Infinity Sound quality

Very Impressive

BEST CAR I HAVE EVER OWNED!!!!!

 Don't be fooled by the Badge

Excellent Cost / Benefit 

Honda, Toyota, and Nissan-----LOOK OUT!!!

Good in some aspects, still lacking in a lot more

Kia Hybrid Premium was a great find

Surprised!

Great Car for the money!!

Husband against imports. Not anymore!

Love My new Opitima!

Nice car, give Kia a chance!

Great car for anyone with realistic expectations

Went with the KIA hybrid 

Test drive review

My SX experience

7,000 mile update

120,000 miles

KIA OPTIMA POOR

Want Mustang Back

Big Mistake !!!

traded down from a Sorento

2009 Kia Optima TRANSMISSIONS ON OPTIMAS ARE BAD!

Good Choice

PLEASANT SURPRISE

4th kia

KIA Optima needs improvement on transmissions

Transmission

First and last import

Very First Foreign Car!

Yes, I bought a KIA

Second car, Love it!

Looks aren't everything

Engine

Awesome car for the money

Love it

Good bang for your buck vehicle!

Optima SXL 1yr review

What a great car!!

Best car around for the price

A SPORTY LUXURY CAR

Can't believe the quality for the price

My first Car (i.e. non 4x4 gas guzzler)

Optimal Optima Follow-up

The most for the least

Bang for the Buck

It is cool, not expensive and.....it is a hybrid!!!!!!!!

Awesome!

New Purchase

Love it!

Awesome car!

Just one week, but...

2014 Optima LX

My second turbo Optima, and still love it

Our 2014 Optima LX

Great car for the price

It's got its pros and cons.

Great so far!

Great car for $

A Mixed Bag

Underrated car

Great on gas

Good with Flaw

Solid Dependable and Great Deal

Don't be afraid, this car is a winner

Great Car

Switched over

Best mid-size deal out there

Pleased with my New Optima

Great car until now..

Satisfied Owner

Great midsize car

Stay away from Kia

Great car, so far:  SAFE

Outstanding!

First foreign built

Do Not Get a Kia

Best car I've ever had!

Awesome Optima LX

Love my car

A fair car for the price

Kia EX V-6

Always had excellent Hondas    Kia is smoother.

WOW KIA DOSE IT AGAIN GREAT JOB!

Great Value

So far, so good

Lyft Driver: Im on the road 24/7

Love my KIA

My Jalopy!

Wanna see ya in a KIA

KIA Out Does Themselves Again

Mama mia - I love my KIA

Love it!  But tall people beware

After 1 day, nearly perfect

Great car so far

Surprising and great

Refined Evolution

STILL LOVE IT! Safety features sold us

Two Weeks & just filling up the gas tank

OVER 700 MILES DURING FIRST WEEK OF OWNERSHIP

Key sticks in ignition

Never getting a KIA again

Worst Mistake Ever Made

Good while under warranty but doesn't hold up

For being older, it is hanging in there well

Wheel alignment

Pretty good for the price

awwsome

My Ruby Red Jewel

That's a Kia?

Great solid car

Front doors will not open

Fun & Easy to Drive

I Really Like This Car!

After Head On Crash -- bought 2nd Optima!

THE SMILING COBRA

Excellent car!

piece of &%$
Worth the money !

2005 Kia Optima LX

it ok

New Purchase of Used Kia Optima

Looking for a good used car?

Excellent - Best by Far

Great Quality & Service

Kia Optima

Overall Good Car

It stinks

Oops, I lost in the used car game

WOW

Paid for and loving it!

Kia Magentis 2004 Model

GAS MPG

Kia Optima Best Value

she's real pretty

Bad Car to purchase

Great reliable car, awesome gas mileage, low maint

My first car

3 years with this car

Meh...just a basic car

Ed and Marions get away car.

2016 Kia Rio  - Too Little, Too Much

Still new to me

The right balance

pleased with this car

best fuel efficient, reliable car 

best for traffic

Great Deal  Great Car

i love my kia rio

In love with my little Rio!

It's good for the price

What a Mistake

Disappointed

Better than I expected

Last Kia

Tom

Commuter

YOU GOTTA DRIVE IT.

great little car, but.....

Wife loves car

I'm reviewing a Kia Rio not a Lexus LFA

My Experience with my Kia Rio

Needs better gear ratio

Like the car but gas mileage is not there

Almost perfect except MPG came up well short 

Dont trust Kia

Best bang for your buck EVER!

Terrible Gas Mileage in a Well Built Car

Kia Rio 2009 LX

OK, for what it is.

great car

Needs Improvement

Great Budget Car

Dependable transportation

No sense to spend more

Kia Rio for Mio!

Better than you think

Love This Car

Old Codger's Comfort Zone

great minivan!

Gas guzzler

expensive repairs

Never Again

140,000 miles and still going strong!

Worst Car I've ever owned - Avoid at ALL Costs

Bought new in '02 and now have 96k miles

Not all lemons grow on trees

great

I'm Happy...

Great car BUT, MPG not as expected

5,000 Mile Review

Short on MPG promised

One Great Car

Best van out there!

Better than I expected

Bad Experience. Unsafe .. and others think so too

120K miles and still going strong

DO NOT BUY USED

RIO 5 Door SX Is Best In Class

2012 Kia Rio SX Sedan

KIA Rio5 an Excellent & Fun Value

Fun to drive, good MPG, Inexpensive

Beyond Expectations!

Excellent good-looking car that is value for money

Great milage

All I wanted & more

KIA RIO PINGING BAD?USE SHELL NITRO PREMIUM ONLY

High MPG Driving Method-2012 Kia Rio 5 EX

2013 Kia Rio LX - A great value!

Love my little car!

Don't Buy a Kia

Do NOT buy a KIA !

10 yrs and still looks/drives well

I must be lucky!

Have to agree with other Kia owners

great value for your money and needs

You will need to buy a spare tire and jacK!

Bad Customer Service and Bad Manual Transmission

double check

horrible customer service

2013 Kia Rio5 EX

Great Little Car

ALOT of bang for the Buck !

Great Car

Really Like Car

2013 KIa Hatchback

Very Happy So Far

No complaints whatsoever...

2013 Kia Rio Ex

Excellent value!

Heartbroken

2011 Kia Rio - HAPPY CUSTOMER

Safe Little Car

2011 Kia rio - 100,000 miles later

Love it! 

Happy with my Rio

So happy to be GONE!

My 2010 Kia Rio

Best Bang For Your Buck

Fun and Sporty little car!

Best Bang For Your Buck!!

Don't buy

Hurray Kia

Better than I expected

New Kia Rio

Great car and soon to be very popular 

Will never buy again!

It's a Kia...

I HATE THIS CAR

Be carefull of the brakes!

beware

It saved my life!!! lots of love!

LOVED THIS LITTLE CAR!

Great value!

Motor mounts

Great little gas saver!

Our little zoom zoom

Still Truckin

THIS CAR SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Great Car at a good price

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR!

Worst car purchase ever!

Very poor quality

Will Never Buy Another Kia

Great Affordable Commuter Vehicle

Great First Car

Tall guy loves tiny car

Piece of junk

Kia does not stand by their warranty!

Great car but...

Kia Rio

sweet, silent, smooth

Killed one, going on another!

Hazard switch location

Enjoying my Kia Rio

Better than expected

2006 Kia Rio

Buy 'em for life...

My Mistake

Toyota Yaris Quality for a Kia Rio Price

Great car for the $$

Great car, and I've had a few.

Excellent car for the money

120,000 on this "clown" car...UPDATE May 2017

Excellent Car

Van Devere>does not honor rust warranty

A Great car

Better than expected!

Not a bad car

Quick, Quiet, Quality

06 Kia Rio LX

Love the 2016 Kia Optima Hybrid (even more than th

A hybrid with good styling

Best PHEV

I Love My Kia

awful

Thanks went back to American companies

Worth the money

I will buy another!

Not worth the money

What a mess

Family in action

dissatified

safety

Love this van!!

large blind spots and continual engine light on

Never again

Spark Plugs hard to change

Great van at a very cheap price

A pleasure to drive

Worth every penny

Kia yeah right!

Interior Needs Do Over

I love this vehicle!

Love it -- A real surprise

it's a keeper

An unknown wonder

Sorry we bought this beast

works for me

We put A LOT of miles on this van!

Not bad but ages prematurely

Update to review of 07/11/2009

Kia driven for 133,000

rust

Great value great car...all the perks

Nice Vehicle

check manufacture date before buying

I've owned my Sedona for 6 years & 105k miles.

Surprisingly Great Vehicle

Love it

Worth the price !

service is as important

Rocket Van!

Excellent value and sporty looks

Bargain Luxury and Style

Best vehicle I've ever bought

What a deal

Poor  Quality Parts

RUSTED KIA SORENTO, SERIOUS SAFETY ISSUE

Sorento review

Gas Mileage

DONT BUY THIS JUNK!!!!!

Do not buy!

Hard on the wallet

BEst Vehicle Made 

Great Vehicle so far

Most car for the Money

Warranty is just a Word

Great car with 239K miles

Never again

Never again

Extreme Disappointment

WARRANTY NEVER HONORED

Truly a comfortable, spacious and practical SUV!!

Please Buyer Beware

Great Value

Piece of Junk

FUEL MILEAGE 20+

My 2003 Kia Sorento Best Car I ever have had.

Fun Car to Drive and Easy to Maintain. 

Great Car for the $$

Best Vehicle I've ever owned

pleasantly surprised.

The Korean Problems

Great Little Truck

Piece of Junk

Big mistake

Kia doesn't honor warranty

Annoying!

Love driving it - hate the recent fixes

Disappointed owner

buying a used first generation kia sorento

caveat emptor

Better be no troubles for 3 years

Family Transportation Done Right

Still in love!!

Very Nice Ride!

I would never buy another new car...

My love Affair with Sorento

I so happy I bought a Kia

KIA = GARBAGE

Excellent Buy & Very Pleasant SUV!!

Solid car for the money

Safety defect in manual transmission

Top Notch!

NOT for long haul commuters!

The Optimal Choice for Minivan Haters

Engine stall while driving

Best technology options on the market.

kia has got a gem in this one

KIA Sedona is so terrible car.

Sedona SXL is more than a minivan

Redesgin The Dead Pedal!!!

Do not rely on 2015 Kia Sedona Brochure

I used to love my car until today...

3 months ownership of used 2015 Sedona SX

10+ years and still a great SUV

Still Runs like a champ after 10 years!!

Great SUV!

3 Strikes and the Kia is out!!!!!

great design, but flawed!

Like a rock!

Great Car!!!

Loved it at first...

Second Sorento 90k miles Strong

Don't buy a Kia!!!!!

Would buy 5!!!

Love my Kia

2006 Kia is nice!

Love My New Kia

Love My Sorrento

My Sorento was great

I love my Sorento!

A Good Buy

Never Again!

Not so sure...

2006 KIA Sorento (4 x 4)

"Killed In Action!"

I love my Kia truck

Would not recomend

Don't make a mistake

Worth checking out

Electrical systems from the 1950's

Defective part that can cause catastrophic failure

I'll never buy another Kia!

Awesome Truck!

We'd buy it again.

Very Nice !

Good Minivan for the Price

2012 Sedona

My Aircraft Carrier

WHAT THE BLEEP HAPPEND TO THE MPG ?!!?!

great open road/sleazy options/2 idiotic features

Great buy

Good Mini Van

Don't buy this car unless you are sure!!!!!

Good car

One dependable comfortable box

Great value on the EX

Not happy

No longer a proud owner.

SECURITY ALERT - DOORS UNLOCK INCESSANTLY WHEN LOA

Good Van... 100K look out!

2nd To Best Car I Have Ever Owned!

Not with your money

Pay more for what, exactly?

Solid Minivan...

Repeat buyer

Traded in an F150 King Ranch for the Sedona

Great minivan for the price!

Best van I have ever owned.

VERY Glitchy Electronics, very good Driving

Best Minivan we've owned

beware......................

Great buy for your money

Bad experience w/ Kia vehicle & service

This Car Is Horrible

A happy surprise

Kia Got it Right

Trip Car

Automatic Door Issues

Best deal on the Market!

Great Buy

Better than Honda or Toyota!!!!!

KIA Sedona LX - spirited driver

Just the facts

Great Deal for The Money

Sedona Forever

Nice Smooth Van Lacks some comfort

I love my Sedona

Not comfortable

KIA Not Loyal to Me

Very good value used

Very Noisy Cabin

SOLID & ZIPPY FAMILY RIDE 

Wise $ spent

2007 Sedona EX 

Don't regret the purchase but would not buy another one

Battery dies due to factory draw

Objective review of my '07 Sedona

never buy again

Has been great for us

nothing but problems

111,786 and rolling

Don,t ever buy this Van.

Quiet, tight ride

Sedona Du Jour

Love my KIA

Save yourself and stay away from Sedona!

Love our sedona

Love my Sedona

not as expected

So far  so good

Step down

Dead battery

Poor vehicle/Poor Customer Service

Both pros and cons

So Not a MiniVan/Soccer Mom...til Now!

2009 Kia Sedona 

Huge mistake

Kia forever

Great van with little problems

But I don't want a minivan!

Great Value

Wow, what a ride

2010 Sedona Brakes

Latent Battery Related Issues

Best surprise in less expensive minivan!

Best van ever

I have 2 Kia's and LOVE them

I own an 06 sedona, would love to own a 15!

Great Van but where is the 25 MPG

2006 Kia Sedona EX

Very good vehicle for its time and even today

Not a bad value

2006 Sedona Minivan

Reliable and smooth transportation.

Got what I paid for

piece of junk

Pretty good mini van

Traded Lemon Y2000 Grand Caravan for 0meter Sedona

Great little van

60,000(miles), The Magic Number

Did I mention...

lots of minivan for the money

2005 KIA SEDONA LX

Warranty

DON'T BUY!!!

This thing won't die!

Bought New in January 2005

She's My Work Horse

10 is OLD

Good van

2016 Sedona SX - Cruiser

Buy the damn van already!

Sadona is the best value period!

Catchy Title!

great looking minivan

Exceeded Expectations

Highly recommended car

Competitive Minivan and a great value

Should have bought sooner

Sedona Arizona and Sedona the Car- LOVE BOTH!

Shake Rattle and Roll

Get ready for a very noisy ride

my nice new grankid transport

Quickly became disappointed in our Sedona

Do not recommend to anyone!

Great minivan.

2016 KIA SEDONA EX rules the roost.

Could not have wished for a better minivan!!!!

CUVs are for chumps

Love, love, love the PARDY VAN!!!!!

KIA Sedona is a fabulous vehicle

give Kias a chance.

What a Wonderful Vehicle, K, K, KIA!!

Kia Sedona

Got 3 of them

Update to original review

Smart Shopper

It wouldn't die!

Where do I start?

Still going strong at 120,000 miles. 

Best low cost to maintain & value mini-van I ever had!

Don't buy a used one

Very poor reliability

Don't Recommend

Purchased used 2 years ago and already vechilce needs work on engine

do not buy

2002 sedona

I Like This Van!

I Dislike This Van

Piece Of Junk

2002 sedona

BUYER BEWARE!!! 

The 45,000 miles Kia

03 Sedona at 140,000 and six years old

Don't do it!!!

very bad!

Good Van For Price

Won't buy another Kia

Fun SUV

Good product for the money. 

3 years later

Still happy after a year and a half

Honest Review

Kia? That's  right.

Well made in America

Very Happy 

So far so good

Kia is my buddy

Be wary of Kia Sorento

2nd Review AFTER 13,000 Miles

Problems after purchase

worthless

Not at all what its supposed to be

Great Car Except..the minor NON DEPLOYING AIR BAGS

DO NOT BUY

A Good Value Mid Size SUV

Sorento SX FWD Rocks!

Got a great used 6cyl coming off lease

Waited a LONG time for this!

Great MPG and All Wheel Drive

Never Imagined a KIA

10,000 miles and loving it

LOVE IT !!!

5,500 miles so far

Great value, overacheving car

2012 sorento owner

surprised with the kia

Downsized From Huge SUV

2012 Kia Sorento 

Excellent First Impressions

Great Value in a Midsize SUV

so far so good for the price

Fun but EXPENSIVE

continental review

Where do I begin?

Great Car 

Get rid of the struts

My Opinion

Stinkin' Lincoln

Good Car

Green with envy

unreliable used car

Lemon?

Great Car

My '94 pearle

Poor air shocks

Renter turned owner.

Great looking car

DO NOT BUY ONE OF THESE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

pretty funky

Love the big boat!

Repair Nightmare

Pass These By

My Opinion

Sweet 16

Best Vehicle Made by Ford

Luxurious Comfort

9 continentals,17 cadillacs

Traditional American

Lincoln is the best

Good used car

Great road car

Loyal Ford owner

Absolutely Love my Lincoln!

God Someone Steal this Car

OLD SUPERCAR - ALMOST GREAT!

description of my 1995 conntiental

pile of junk

Great Buy

Pimp Daddy ride

hot rod lincoln

Best Car Ever!

Love IT!!

NIce Car

Solid vehicle

Great Older Car Now Opens the Wallet

BUILD IT !

john

WOW was I disappointed 

great alternative to Taurus

1997 Lincoln Continental - a great car.

ALARMING SITUATION...

GOOD for the USED PRICED

1997 Lincoln Continental Base

Love my Lincoln Continental

Don't  make them like this anymore

Good car

Quite a ride for $2,900.00!!!

The best car I have owned

Good Large American Sedan

A Great Ride!

5 years of ownership

Comfort without style

what a buy

Worst vehicle ever

Big Dollar Bang for the Buck

Great  car if your rich

California Dream

Loving your lincoln

Great Vehicle!

 very good car

Great Ride, High Maintenance

Oh, Thank you for Extended Warrenty

Sharp Car!

Buyer Beware

Dissatisfied Area

Nice car for the money

LOVE MY HOT ROD LINCOLN

Nice Car but beware

Still Going Strong!

Great Car!

Great trip car

Hunk of Junk

Lincoln Continental

LikeMyLinc

1996 Lincoln continental

GREAT MACHINE

Loved it while owned

Continental ride

classy looking cloud

Best ride of my life

Very Impressive !

Exclnt. Quality for the money

one of the best cars everrr

Old car still running

Black Beauty Conti

Air Bag Suspension expensive to replace.

Nice Car...Cheap Interior

LC

They sold me a Lemon

My Lincoln Experience

Excellent value

Anniversary Edition N Showroom Condition

Best Car I've EVER been in!

It's great while it lasts

Stinkin' Lincoln

It costs way too much to keep running!

My Signature

Grrrrrrrreaaat!

They saw me coming

New Owner

dont buy a lincoln!!! it is a junk!!!

Fun car to drive, hard to keep

dead

Expensive to keep.

Headache to own

Lemon

Money Pit

Never again

I  just love my Kia

Next vehicle

2015 Kia Sorento LX FWD 

Waynes new Kia

Nice car

lincoln review

Awesome Car

Ok

Smooth ride, but costly repair

Nice Car, Too Bad It Was Built Poorly

Great Made in USA SUV

My first KIA

fun but not reliable

Evaluation after one year and 12,000 mi. of driving

Kia Sorento

Capacious and Comfy Cruiser

Great Mid size SUV

I changed from buying a newer Ford Escape

A Jewel 

Love this 2015 car but....

Still LOVE my Kia!

It is all about the air.

Run from this SUV

Great Car For A Grandpa

Bad MPG's!!!

My sorento

Sporty and sophisticated all in one package

We love our 2014 Kia Sorento LX

a nice Touring car

Engine Trouble

Unreliable and dangerous

Dead Dead Battery!

A very impressive vehicle

GREAT Choice

Never dreamed I'd own a Kia! 

WOW! 

My wife and I love this car

Sorento 35K Miles Engine Gone! BUYER BEWARE

My first Sorento. I love it!!!

Cannot see Speedometer needle in bright light

Nice SUV

Very happy so far

Never Buying Kia Again! Terrible Engine, Terrible

My 2nd Kia sorento

AMAZING VALUE

So Far So Great

2013 Sorento V6 - EX Great vehicle!!

The ride will always be unacceptable.

Very Happy 

Love our 2012 Sorento

Stop Bashing the MPG Numbers!

Sorry But MPG Sucks

full package

Great Buy

2013 LX GDI AWD

Great Camping/Towing Vehicle

Great SUV but one problem

Kia2013 Sorento

Good, solid if unspectacular car

Update- 5 months and 6,000 miles, still loving it

Poor Reliability and Poor Service

Kia should be sued for lying about mpg's!

2012 Sorento SX AWD

Sorento 2012 LX 2.4 Front Wheel Drive

We love this crossover!

Worth the wait - best non-luxury mid-size SUV value

Kia Sorento LX with convenience package and 3rd row seat

Solid vehicle, great pricing used.

I'm happy (so far)

Sweeeeeeet Vehicle

Kia... designed to fail at 61,000 miles

Needs Retro-Fit Shocks

Great price,geat ride

Worst car ever

2011 Kia Sorento

Great for the Price!

Unreliable KIA Sorento

What can I say about the 2011 KIA Sorento SX..."WOW!"

Best Purchase To-Date

2 questions

Love it !!!

Fun to Drive

Great Bargain

A great SUV

Decent for the price

Nice for the price

2009 Kia Sorrento

very good vehicle

Great buy

Great vehicle for low price

Just starting

great SUV

2009 Kia Sorento

This car awful!

BEST SUV EVER!

Good car but had problems

Great car for the price

Love My Kia

Love my Lexus look-a-like!

Great Value

Bang for the Buck Truck

Best Value SUV

This is a great SUV for the money

I love my Kia

125,000 Major Engine Fail

Workhorse

Never again

YOU GOTTA DRIVE IT

Still going strong....103,000.

Gas Cap - Escape light / check engine light 

This vehicle has been great

Wish I had read the reviews

Beauty & The Beast

It's not the car; it's the dealer/service

Very Pleased

It may of saved our lives!

I concurr w/the positive reviews

I'll Never Buy Another Kia

Some good, some bad

100,000 miles in and all's well

Very Jeep-like

a lemon

want a newer car but dont want to trade mine in

Kia will NOT fix the problem with our car.

Fantastic Find

The one that replaced the Pilot

Way more than I expected!!

amazing

Hyundai Owner makes the Switch

Some Good and Some Not as Good

Awesome Vehicle

KIA Done Right

Kia Built a Winner - Great Value!

Over The Top for A Cheap Import

!!! MUST BUY !!!

great upsized mid level suv

Really nice vehicle

after one year, spectacular!

Exceptional CUV (Updated)

nice car

Unintentional Purchase

New 2017 Sorrento

Fits like a Glove!

Well Worth the Money, Riverside Kia AMAZING

I tested them all!

Love This New Kia Toy!

Kept my family safe in a serious collision!

KIA Sorrento EX 2.0T-You Won't Be Disappointed

Exceeded Expectation- Everything Well Thought Out.

Our 3rd Sorento-outstanding features for the price

VERY PLEASED

Great Purchase!

Love the Sorento SX AWD

Step aside lux X-overs - there is new King in town

a lotta SUV for the $

2017 Kia Sorento Limited AWD

"Made" in USA

My 3rd Sorento!!  And I love it...most of the time

Best SUV for the money

Things That Make you go Hmmmm

Good, but

Our 3rd Sorento - best yet!!

Love my new KIA except for one thing.

Although a great car ... sorry I purchased it

Broken Wings

Small, hard, fatiguing seats

Outstanding vehicle

A car named Layla.

lincoln revisited

Luxury at a great price

Lincoln is back!!

LUXURY  AT IT'S Best!

Great car

Had BMW 7 and Lexus LS

Surpising Improvement

Luxury without Wealth

Beyond Expectations

It was time

lincoln continental

Ned's Review

Great Real Family Sedan

Excellent Automobile

linc cont

Too bad its discontinued

Continntal

Best of the Lincoln Line

Love this car

Great car

Lincoln Navigator Rocks!

Big Beautiful SUV

NEW TIRES NEW NAVIGATOR

The Best Ride

hello again mr mechanic!

Best Vehicle on the Planet

Doing ok so far

I am very happy

Should Have Known no to buy another Ford

Simply The Best

Beautiful Car

continental

Lincoln Continental, Dream Car

Sweet Linc

I'm glad I got the Continental

2001 'Gator

Perfect but Pricey

navi

Navigator is King

The Best Ride Ever!

nice nagivator

Satisfied Owner of several Nav's

newer may not be better

A great & elegant SUV

Nicest of the full size suv's

fall in love

New Navigator

Very Frustrated

What an awesome suv!

naughtynavigator

More than a Luxury SUV

2003 Lincoln Navi

Ann's Navigator

my lemon navigator

Luv my Nav!!

Hard for this one to disappoint

2006 Lincoln Navigator

best suv in the world

So-So Experience with Navigator

2006 Lincoln Navigator

can build it better than a rover

Lincoln Experience

2006 Navigator, my 4th

Overpriced Bucket of Bolts

Recommended

2007 Lincoln Navigator

Amazingly better!

Canada SUV

Navigator

Almost Perfect

Still the Best

Reliable, big and comfortable SUV

7 passengers at 70 mph and 17 mpg

best suv ever

navi 2000

Major upgrade from previous Navigator's

The Ultimate

2007 Licoln Navigator L

Best Navigator yet

very outstanding

"Navie" gator

Good to Excellent

Love The Nav!

Great SUV

FishingJoe

Excellent Ride

I love my Navigator

LOVE IT, LOVE IT, LOVE IT

Love My Navigator

So/So

Not worth the operating cost

MPG

Driving my Beast!

Navigator 
3 Great Years

WOW!!!!

AWESOME SUV

Looking to buy my third

Solid.

Love my Navigator <3

fordwarrior

Awesome Truck

Sweet Ride for my 5 girls.

A money looser

Wasn't too bad until the 5.4 "death rattle"

Great SUV

Poor plastic

Lots of potential

A great luxury SUV

Sweet Ride

We love our 2010 Navigator

My Review

My one month experience so far

New impression

Lincoln Navigator

Better Than Expected

Why did I even look at an Escalade?

The SUV I've been waiting for!!

Great second Nav

Very Nice SUV!!

Luxury Built Ford Tough

Luv It

Solid in every way

Love my Navigator

I had this car for 10 years

Amazing 08 Navigator

Comfortable and Roomy.

Great travel vehicle

Best One Yet

Nice SUV

Luxury rediscovered by Lincoln Finally

Love my NAV but it loves GAS

2007 Navigator Elite

New Lincoln Navigator Owner

A "BIG" Step Up

The one to buy.

Nice!

Improvement needed

A very dissapointing experience!

My 2006 Lincoln navy

Needs more Horse-Power

Luxury Workhorse

A leftover 2006 Navigator w/3 dings...

Great design & value

Best Vehicle I've Owned

Big mistake

All time best SUV

best around

more than expected

one of the biggest pieces of junk MADE

besides all the glamour..DONT BUY.....

DON'T BUY THIS VEHICLE!

navigator

Died already

Best Vehicle Ever

Envy of the neighborhood!

Power and style

GREAT SUV

2002 Navigator

Sonnys

LINCOLN The Standard of LUXURY

excellent

smooth operator

Excellent

Great Vehicle

CK5205

navigator 02

Our SUV 

Lovin' It

A Great SUV

Love and Hate relationship

My Navigator

fairbury

I love my Nav

Rate 2004 Lincoln Navigator

Best Yet

Some problems but I still LOVE this car!

Sad

Linclon is terribole

linclon

Just bought a used 2004 Lincoln Navigator

2004 nav problems

Ford POS in drag......

2004 nav problems

love my navigator

Excellent SUV

Awesome!

The ultimate big ride!

classiest luxury suv

better than cadillac 

baby boomer  dream buggy needs more ... 

Leak on top of Gem module

My navigator

Luxurious Behemoth

Nothing but problems!

Love it

nothing but engine problems

Won't buy another one

Luxury on Wheels

The Rock

Love my "car"

2001 NAV

194000 miles and still running strong

Thought it was great till warranty over

Navigator test drive

220,000 miles and still going strong

Great vehicle, bad fuel economy

Incredible SUV....5 of 5....until a vacuum leak

Better than an Expedition

I'd buy another but......

My  Green Gator

1999 Navigator

Most Luxurious LEMON - My Love Hate SUV

The Greatest Travel Vehicle

Love my Navigator

A+

Depends on the day...

Not bad for a Ford

A Happy Navigator

Best Car I Have Ever Driven

Great Automobile

2001 Lincoln Continental

Hot Rod Lincoln

One of the Last Continentals

All Around Great

Personal Safety Rating Testimonial

Our Navigator

not too bad

Navigator

2001 Lincoln Continental

Golden Girl's Lincoln

Best used ar value by far!

Thumbs up for 2001 Continental

Luxury at its finest

No Competition!

Johnny Mack

1999 Navigator

1999 Lincoln Navigator

BEAST

Love it !!

Great Car!

Late md Continentals speedometer error

Very good but not great

Keep Making It

Super Satisfaction

Satisfied Comsumer

who would have told me?

A Quality Car All Around

Great Luxury Sedan

nice car

Owner

Decent Car

Lincoln Got it right!

A vehicle with class

My Baby

A luxury car for the budget conscience

High Quality and Value

Super Sedan

unique automobile

Not my Mark VIII

2000 Lincoln Continental

Lincoln Continental

Continental Review

Love this car

My Outstanding 2000 Lincoln Continental

Feeling like a millionaire on wheels

faith's continental

Greatest Car

Value of My Car

nice car

Value for the money

Excellent Car!!! 

Comfort, sporty luxury and Stylish

2000 continental

Comfortable and classy

1998 Continental

My Continental

You gotta get one or two

Love My Linc

Mediocre at best

Eddie's Lincoln

Expected More

Continental review

My Lincoln

My HOT ROD LINCOLN!

My favorite car

lincoln carter excellent

Great Car!

Expensive Upkeep

Better than average

Best Lincoln I have owned, but not FUN !!

2 good continentals

Excellent Value

What's not to like!

The continental is so nice, I bought one.

Simply Awesome!!!

Amazing beautiful car!

Great Car

Not up to date!

Don't buy a MKC Black Label

Worst car ever

Not up to date!!!

Great Luxury Crosssover for the price

AMAZING

Black Beauty

Love my Lincoln

Navigation with iphone

Great vehicle

I love it!

Lincoln's return to the luxury car market!

Love the MKS

Bad trunk

Great car

American luxury touring sedan

Lincoln MKS

Better than it is given credit for...

comfort city

I traded my Mercedes C350 Coupe, 4MATIC, for MKS

lin MKS

Pleased with our MKS

Lincoln plus MKT EcoBoost = Great Auto 

What a car

My MKT

MKT a Winner

Great New Car from an American Company

this people mover is rock

Noise

Worth Every Penny & Beautiful

Great car, one perplexing shortcoming

I am loving it

Could Be Better

Great Highway Cruiser

Great Car

Merry MKTmas

Very Happy With my Choice

Edmunds is Way Off Base!

Love this Vehicle

Has it All

Lincoln MKT

Best car ever

Very Nice Crossover

Excellent Safety Features, Ugly Exterior

I'd Buy Another One!

Used MKt

What was Ford thinking

Traded '14 ESV for the L and loving it!

Great value great service

Really big upgrade from my 2008 Navigator

Compared all of the luxury SUV's, Navigator won

MKS is a hidden gem!

Excellent Executive Car

Overpriced and over hyped

Enjoyable compact luxury crossover

Terrific Car So Far

Little Red

What a mistake!

All that glitters is not gold!

I have NEVER been so disappointed in a Ford product or their Customer Service as I am right now!

I always liked Matthew Mcconauthey.  : )

Fun to drive quality SUV

A nice SUV, but not perfect.

Awesome Vehicle

MKC made a Lincoln man out of me!

Wow great car!

I still love this vehicle, no regrets!

Shocked 

2015 Rust after 1 year

Super Comfortable

Nothing larger or smoother for the dollar

Costly

Great Car!!

NOT HAPPY

Expedition on steroids

Headrests need to go back to the 2006 version.

Take flight!!

Luxurious working horse

Luxurious working horse

2011 Navigator 4x4

Really enjoy it!

Our 2nd Navigator

A Great Navigator L 4x4

2011 Lincoln Navigator Limited Edition

Navigator 
best vehicle in town

Tired of every day living

2017 MkC

Great Addition to the Lincoln Line

I Love My MKC.

Awesome car!

A Good Alternative to German and Japanese Models

I LOVE it

Ok first we leased 2 of them both Reserves

Definitely not my Grandpa's Lincoln!

Blows away the BMW X3

Perfect Except for Mileage

It's just OK!

Everything I was looking for in a car!

Excellent elegant SUV

Happy Lincoln MKC Owner

Lincoln is a great luxuary vehicle

Amazing in a snowstorm

Better than a bmw or benz.

Class

From Convertible to SUV!

Great SUV

Tad

Great Ride

Great Ride

Very Solid Luxury Crossover with a Few Quirks

Wife's new MKC Select

Brand New 2016 Lincoln MKC

Great Ride!

Exceeded expectations

Just get in & drive

why knot?

Great Exterior.  Awesome Interior.

Lincoln Has a New Faithful Customer

Impressed

I can't believe Ford built this car!

2010 MKZ Ultimate AWD

Improvements badly needed!

Crazy 'bout the mkz

The beast

Good car, excellent car company

Trying too hard

2016 MKZ is great comfort sedan

2016 MKZ Hybrid

2016 MKZ Hybrid - NOT worth the money!

I Am Now Known As Mr MKZ

Trade in value similar to a compact Ford Focus

Luxury Sports Car

Competition to the Germans

Never Had a Maintenance Free Car Before!

2012 Lincoln MKZ Hybrid is a great ride!

Great car, but.....

Smooth Ride

Engaging Lincoln "Z"

Great car

Big safe on gas and very comfort

the car that

A lot to pay for a nameplate

Lincoln????

love this car

Finally Received 2013 MKZ Hybrid

A car I will never forget

Awesome

Stay Away from This Car

Excellent value for a hybrid vehicle

Your Dream is now My Reality

great styling, well equipped, I'm satisfied

2014 Lincoln MKZ 3.7L AWD

Excellent Car - with a few irritations **UPDATED**

2014 MKZ 2.0 with the Reserve Group

Lincoln MKZ Lover

As luxurious as a Tesla, for easily half the price

MKZ Hybrid is an amazing car

Best Lincoln ever!

Impressive Automobile

mkz for 22 days, miss it

Great looking car and to drive and own.

Looker...needs a couple of refinements inTHX, Nav.

Stunning looks/but bland overall

Wow. Bang for your Buck!

A big trouble

Wish I had looked closer

Worst Ever

Back to American Built 

6,000 miles and zero defects

Looks Good, Quality not job one!

Lots of small problems

They need to get it right

Very nice

love it as much as the day I bought it

Awesome Car!!

Noisy tires

Linc-tastic

Best Car we have owned, hands down!

Passed the ultimate safety test!

Awsome Car

Expectations Realized

Best in Class

Love this car

Really Great Car!!

love the style

MKZ Hybrid

Love My MKZ Hybrid

Luxury Sedan for Grownups

Third Ford Corporation Hybrid

4TH MKZ OWNED  (Have 3.7 model)  

Great milage

Glad I got it

Smiles per Miles, and going strong

2014 Mkz with 5k driven miles

Better than I expected

Loving my MKZ

MKZ Software Update Completed

Impressive Statement from Lincoln

Best Decision....

Not your grandpas car anymore

I feel the need to write a review

LOVE my MKZ Hybrid!

Love this car

Happy purchaser

2013 MKZ Hybrid after 1,400 miles

Good, Bad, And Ugly

Love this car!

love my mkz hybrid

2013 Lincoln MKZ 2.0 Ecoboost

4 months with the car and it exceeds expectations

Road Trip In a 2013 Lincoln MKZ

Nice, so far

MKZ Hybrid 2013, review, Edmunds is off the mark

Makes anything else feel boring

Reliable ride

Nice Hybrid

Classy Car, Smooth Ride

The Perfect Commuter Car

Still love it after 1 year

Awsome Vehicle   MKZ Hybrid 2011

put your doubts behind, get the hybrid

2011 Lincoln MKZ

Best Used Value On the Market

New to Hybrid Cars

3-20-2014 Still a happy customer.

Can't use chains or cables for snow

FromZtoShiningZ

The Good. Bad, the Ugly

Great car for the price

A Real Sleeper!

Front License Plate Frame

I was Prepared To Be Amazed But I Was Bamboozled

Awesome car!!!

ANEMIC

Great ride

Good value from a traditional American car company

My First Lincoln in 62 Years

400 HP AWD 2017 MKZ

From Lexus to Lincoln MKZ

What more do you really need

Lincoln MKZ FWD

Very solid. Nice ride.

Next time I'll look past the new

More than satisfied

A Proud MKZ Owner

One Fine Car !!!!

Lincoln MKZ Hybrid

2016 Bronze Fire Hybrid

MKZ 4 Me!

A step up from my 530xi

Better than expected

Value for the Money

Great Dark Horse Luxury Car

Very happy I bought this car!

A quiet comfortable and smooth ride

Great Ride at an acceptable Price

Should help the Lincoln brand

Lemon Alert!!!  2017  Lincoln MKZ Reserve Hybrid

3.0 Hot Rod Lincoln

Great buy

Makes me smile

Quiet Luxury

MKZ Hybrid 2017

This is a wonderful vehicle!

Needs some improvement.

ZERO COMPLAINTS

Engine noise

Lincoln or Ford

Great car at a great price!

3 months and losing steam

Two Month Report

Loving it

Love it!

Nice Car, Worth Checking Out

my hot rod Lincoln

I'm a Ford man

A GOOD WORK IN PROGRESS

Great Head Turner

I love this car !!!

to much trouble for new mkz

Great Entry Luxury Car

Appears to be a good segment choice

Very nice car

No parts available when it breaks

Impressed

Zippy

Want my towncar back

Thanks for not bailing out Ford

What a great fun performance car!

Do not buy

pros beat the cons

2012 Lincoln MKT. You have to have it

2nd MKZ

Great car

2nd American Car in 38 Years

Wonderful Automobile

Great Car and Great Value

Wonderful Automobile

My 2nd Lincoln MKZ

Has any one else got stories like this to share?

My 2010 MKZ vs. my '07 MKZ

All you need

Emperor of the Highway.

Really great crossover if you have the bucks

COOL MAMA IN A COOL CLASSY CAR

2013 LINCOLN MKT LEAKING ANTIFREEZE AT 59000 MILES

Enjoying our 2014 MKT EcoBoost

Great Car

Surprisingly Good - A Functional Fashion Statement

81 OLD MALE

best lincoln made, shouldn't not stop making mkT

a must see

Buyer Beware!!

has small problem

Love my 2016 Lincoln MKX Reserve

Ups and downs

Rusty paint product

Excrescence

Never Lease From Lincoln

Love my MKX

Simply great SUV!

Great Car

Pros and Cons

2011 MKX Enging Knock

MKX in Minnesota

Elliott's MKX Update

Great SUV

So Far So Good!

2008 MKX

Love my MKX

Over-rated

RV Towed ,DOA

Glad I bought this hot MKX

Great Car

Fun car to own

Wanted it to be better....

LOVE LOVE LOVE this car

Beware

Glads that I made right decision

Lincoln! 

First Lincoln

Awsome ride

Fun and Very Comfortable for the City

The Ultimate Christmas Gift!

93 NSX review

1993 NSX

From 2013 Tahoe to 2016 Kia Cadenza

Amanti Believer 6 +  Cadenza Follower

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Best Car Every Purchased

Great Value, Awesome braking

Power to Surprise *****

Great car for a great price!

My Kia Forte has won me over

Screamin' Hot Value

Must Consider this car!

New Kia owner

Sweet SX - Automatic 2.4L

Good cheap car that runs and drives

Have to hand it to Kia

So many problems, so few miles

Great Car

Excellent Car...

Less than expected

Decent but Disappointing

A great car and value

Nice, BUT...

kia Has Hit it on the Head!

You don't drive a Cadenza? Shame on you!

Better than BMW and Mercedes

Cadenza Premium

BEST AND SHARPEST CAR ON THE ROAD

My Cadenza - a symphony of motion

Best car I've owned

I Love my 2014 Forte Hatchback!!!

Second-Hand Kia

Little things mean a lot

Water leak in trunk compartment

great little car

110K miles and two kids.

Sweet Little Car!

great car

Great bargain

surprising gas mileage

The car is okay, but the gas mileage is not very good.

2013 Forte SX

Great car, but I'm a little worried.

Honda/Acura Dreams on Kia Credit & Income

First new car in 22 years!

Overpriced Cheap Money Pit

Great Car, But Drinks Gas

why buy anything else!!!!!!!

Economical Car

The Best deal for the Money!

Don't buy !

hesitation when accelerating slowly

Great Purchase

love my forte

A great little car.

Little Unknown Hot Hatch!

OMG are you serious here?

Would not buy another KIA

bad hesitate  bad ... dangerous

EEGGHH it's ok..but not great

I Love My KIA Forte 5 Door EX Hatchback

Almost a GTI for a fraction of the price

The Forte5 SX Manual is a great car to drive.

Great Car in an Excellent Package

Sporty Looking car with a ok feature list.

The "I finally got to know it!" review

2015 Forte LX sedan

Overall a good buy

Base model LX good bang for buck

Great cheaper alternative

Love my Forte!

Amazing car for the price

Work Commuter

Nice Tweener Car

Love, love, love my Kia Forte!

Great car!

Great car for smooth flat roads Awsome MPG

Love my new Kia

Perfect little car

Good car for my money

Absolutely LOVE this car!!

Have had Forte Sedan EX for about one month.

new car

Thyrome

Perfect So Far

COMPAC-MEDIATE

Great Compact Car!

Wow, this car was a great ride!

So far, great purchase

Perfect little car!

Great value at a very good price!

quicker than you expect

Best car I've ever owned!

Great car for the money!

My Kia Forte SX Koup

Gas Saver!

2011 Forte EX

An car for people who have never driven a honda 

Wonderfully, Disappointing

The Love for Kia begins...

Great Car

A good car, but not a great one

I am coming back 5 years later to write this

Good value, roomy for its class, lacks great handling

Luv my kia's

Love This Car

Low Priced Car--Great Value, great MPG

2011 Forte review

Top of the class

good ride

Frustrated Kia owner!!!

LOVE the 2014 Forte!

so far so good

2014 Kia Forte Nails It

Love her when she's not being serviced

Starts off great but major water issues!

Good car BUT overstated mpg

Never buy another

Love at First Ride

great gas milage and reliable

Canadian Kia Forte 5 EX Auto

Outstanding Value - Fun To Drive - Safety No. One

Forte SX hatch vs. Mazda 3 or Elantra Touring

Great Car Overall

first 500 miles

Saved our lives!

Is it really a KIA?

Mostly Good

No comparison!

Average Joe

Forte LX - nice surprise

2014 Kia Forte EX is a winner!

Perfect car for commuting

Upgraded my 2011 Hatch to the 2014 Forte5

Try it, You will buy it!

Luxury at a bargain price

28k Miles so far and........................

What a Deal

Celina Cadenza

So far so good

Enjoying my Cadenza Premium

26,000 miles

From Cadillac to KIA (WHAT?)

The moron who left Toyota for the 2014 Cadenza

Cadenza-Simply a beautiful car

2014 Cadenza w/Technology Package 

My first 1200 miles...

Keep it up Kia

Cadenza review brief update 

Korean Cadillac? 

Complete Car for the Majority of People

31000 Mile Reflections

terrible road noise

four months in

Almost one year with Cadenza

Practical Performance

Mine's a Red One

Engineered with brains

best exotic on the market

Awesome!

Best car I have ever owned.

Nothing But Fun!!!

92 NSX, truly remarkable exotic

1992 NSX

Awesome, just awesome!!!

1992 Pristine NSX

Still on top

High Luxury Not High Price

MKX x off the others!

Once Again, Lincoln

Golfers delight

2010 MKX Limited - Nice Car!

Great American Luxury Car

I would recommend the MKX

2nd Lincoln owner

Sucks

dual climate control

Very poor service on this car

No Leg Room

Could've had a V8!!!!

Top Notch 

best suv/crossover I could find

Bargain Luxury

Dream SUB

Love my Lincoln

American Luxury

Great SUV

Awesome!

Great vehicle

Junky Lincoln MKX

What a Rip Off

Love my Lincoln hate Navigation

Forte5 EX or SX is the way to go

Pretty good bang for your buck

Sporty Hatchback

Would not wish this thing on my worst enemies

Great deal

Forte Fan

Coming from a 99' Chevy Lumina

Kia is the best bang for your buck!

Best compact car for the price!

Love it!

LOVE MY NEW 2016 FORTE LX

Great Daily Driver but no GTI

riding in style

Love my new Forte

Good Not Excellent Car

Well made & designed car for a bargain price!

Bye bye '12 Forte SX 5 door & hello '16 Forte5 EX

Inexpensive well equipped car

I'm in Love

Getting my Money's Worth

Poor reliability and price for the features

Trouble free after 43,500 miles

Great Luxury Car!

Great car Bang for your Buck!!

Forte for me!

If you're not loving driving Kia U R just driving

Fun to drive

Love the car

I am in love with my 2017 Kia Forte S

A fine value!

Kia forte S Sedan

My second Forte

Nice car to own and ride

pleasantly surprised

4dr sedan kia forte lx

Amazing car

Solid, Silent, & Stylish

They got it right!

Nice Job Lincoln - good Riddance Benz

Unbeleiveable value

OOPS for Lincoln

I love it!

Worst bang for the buck

"Learning" to love my Lincoln...

American car makers need to take some tips from European Car Makers

Do not buy

Lincoln MKX keeps getting better!

Luxury and cargo space

Great SUV for the Money!

Lincoln MKX 2013

Poor experience from Lincoln

Definitely put this vehicle on your "to drive list".

No open door chime!!! Terrible design. 

MyLincoln Touch sinks this car

BlueTooth is Horrible in MKX!!

Mytouch gone wrong

lincoln rocks!

Great car with terrible software

SYNC my ride

You can run but you can't see it

My Sync

Sync Not Ready for Prime Time

Simply a great car!!!!

My Touch Sucks

One Awesome Crossover

FUN FUN Car!!

Um I don't understand all the critic hate

smooth comfortable quiet ride

Onboard Entertainment System is woefully poor

I'll never own another Kia

Buyer Beware

8 months of owning it

Not worth the money

like new but for half the price

trash car

The best used luxury car for the price

Luxury with some sportiness

Rides and handles nice!

Take a good look - then look elsewhere

Disappointed

Great car for the money

American Dream

Quality and Classy

Impressed with MKX

Beats the Bow Tie

New MKX

Interior Trim

Fabulous Experience!!

There's Hope for the Big 3!

I love my MKX!

Shweeeeettttt Ride!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Extremely Satisfied Buyer

Sweet Ride

Very Pleased With My MKX!

My New MKX

I would not buy this car...it is unreliable

2.7L AWD Reserve

My Car

2016 2.7L Turbo-Good Stuff~She's fully Loaded too.

I love my MKX

Give American made a chance, like we did.

ALL prior model drawback have gone away!!!!

Lincoln's Luxury with hicups

My MKX Reserve Rocks!

X Marks the Spot

Didn't Want to Give it Back!

Brand new Purchase: updated

don't always take the "experts" opinion .

Excellent, Comfortable and Quiet Vehicle

Happy Wife / Happy Life

2017 Lincoln MKX is a winner

Great quiet ride

I have moderate back issues and severe neck issues

Nice car with seating and technology shortcomings

Dream car

I love it!

The Fabulous NSX

Americans expect more for $90,000

A fine instrument

Excellent Overall Sports Car

You'll fall in love...

Great car for the money

2007 Acura RDX

I Love My Techno RDX

Great SUV

Did I just buy a lemon?

A wolf in sheep's clothing.

For the Most Part -- Happy Owner

2008 Acura RDX

ACURA RDX NAVIGATION, SPEEDOMETER, ODOMETER, TRIP OVERSTATED MILEAGE

60K, so far, so good

Rattle Trap 

40K and so far, so good

ACURA QUALITY

A Great Compromise

RDX Rocket!

First Tank RDX

I love the sports mode of RDX

Terrific Alternative To German Models

Super Fun to drive!

Great if you can live with the compromises

Overall We Love This Car

Acura RDX

Love my RDX

It's just ok

Brakes

Fun RDX

Fun, but expensive to operate

Learn about it first

The right car for me

Not great for a petite woman!

Pearl white gem of a car

Acura RDX

Great Ride

Great Vehicle

New 2011 RDX Owner

rdx with tech package

RDX is perfect!

Great Car for the $

best crossover I've owned

Great Car-SUV

Huge bang for the buck

Good value

RDX Review

2011 RDX FWD Base w/Roof Rack

Fun to drive

Not really good for the money

Just Perfect For Us

Better than a Lexus?

Awesome

Mostly Up

4 Wheeled Vette  

Fun to drive

Nice Comfortable Turbo Crossover

Nice certified off-lease ride

2010 RDX - Impressive vehicle

Best Bang for the Buck!

2010 RDX

2010 RDX Review - SH-AWD

Excellent Value and Fully Loaded

The Best small upscale SUV, hands down

One happy buyer here

Navi

Nice Commuter SUV

Follow-up to my previous Follow-up

Bumpy ride

Sports car in SUV shell

It's almost one year

Never Again

Not overly impressed

My first Japanese car

Great Car!

An experiment gone awry

Meh...it's okay

CAN'T WAIT TO GET RID OF

2 Years Later

Not Happy

Buyer's Remorse

RDX  Worst Horrible Ride ever

I too wish I could return

Follow-up Review

Great Purchase

Love it

Not much to not like

Know what you're buying

Beware

Worst car I have ever owned

Deeply Conflicted

Like an MDX and Accord all in one 

A fun, fun, fun sporty little SUV 

What a snatch!

Comparing the RDX to BMW X3

compares to other luxury vehicles

Love this car

No substantial complaints. Great SUV

Do your research

225K and going strong

Best SUV for us!

Special car

Cool Car!

My RDX

Great crossover, a blast to drive.

Why I bought this car over others

Hard to Beat an Acura

Four months experience!

THis car is awesome

I love this car!

A smart mans exotic car

My second NSX

An exotic without the price tag.

Great Car

The real exotic car.

Still A Great Drive

Like no other

Let's Get Real!!!

The ultimate Driving Machine !!!

Former Corvette owner

This car had been underrated by so many!

i love this car

i love this car

Absolute Dream 

Great older generation auto

2005 Acura NSX

King Dudley's  WHITE  NSX

so fine!!!!!

NSX

THE NSX IS TIGHTTTTTTT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

SPEED

Best Honda/Acura Yet!!

My 2nd NSX

Excellence at a price

2 year follow up

A fine instrument

Couldnt be happier

My NSX car

great car

reality of nsx

BEST OF JAPAN

Exotic thrill ride

super car love it

Cool Car

EXOTIC to say the least

The BEST Car

Wonderous

Nothing like it.

Funtastic

best car i have owned

excellent!

This is my third one

WOW

Horsepower is Lagging.

acura HXS

best car on the planet

2003 NSX

nsx

Killer Kaiser!

Best not-a-station-wagon car ever made

My 99 NSX

Simply Awesome

The perfect sports car?

Thanks to Honda!

nsx

Extremely well-balanced supercar

chris

Ummm...its not what I expected

everything

Fits like a glove

if only

Absolutely a wonderful car

Supercar

THE greatest sportscar value ever...

The Exotic Without the Headache

None Better

the best of both worlds...

Best Car Ever Produced

EXOTIC IT IS

90% of Porsche 918  at 80% discount

First Acura - mixed feelings

As Good as Advertised and Better in Some Ways

Best buy in its class

Definitely love it!!!

2016 RDX Died in just 22 Days

What a great vehicle 

Continue to be Disappointed

How to Make a Car

Fast, stylish and feature filled

OK but.....

Great luxury SUV for the money

Blows my former Lexus NXt200 Away

First try with a luxury brand--2017 Acura RDX AWD

Great Value and Great Look - Classy SUV

LOVE the 2017 RDX - POWER HOUSE!!!

Buyer beware - horrible suspension

Nice ride

Great car

Acura RDX Rules !!!!!

Loving this care

Brake Safety Issue

Mine must be the exception, but I doubt it!

Bad Smell coming out of AC vents

RDX is a Sport Car in Disguise

Balanced and competent vehicle!

Too many front suspension problems!

2 years later...

Huge disappointment

Great car, Tech package a disapointment

farm wife's truck

must own one

My Bentley

wow

Al's Bent

Love my Renegade!

Little Jeep with an Attitude

My First SUV

Mini Jungle Jeep

BIG DISAPPOINTMENT

Review by retired master auto tech

Great "little" vehicle...

1400 Mi Highway road test

Good looks bad behavior

growing on me

Happy Camper...

Trend Setting

Kicks Butt in Canadian Winter!

Great SUV

This vehicle is underrated

Jeeps Junk

It's a Jeep thing - you know!

I Love My Jeep

The Powerful Beast

Bill's Review

Hasta (get me there and get me home)

bob's title

Amazing SUV

Enjoyable Ride

Jeep Gr Cherokee - Great!

94 Grand

Great Vehicle

1994 Reliable Grande Cherokee

Best Car Ever...Only owned Jeeps

You Can Not Beat a Jeep

For a 16 year old rig very pleased.

best yet

Rock solid

Love My Jeep! (:

Bad jeep

4 Cylinder Jeep Cherokee -- Great

Not what everyone else said

Junk

patriot limited 5spd manual

Great Jeep

Very Satisfied with Jeep

Crap

'93 ZJ 318ci v8

Cool Truck

93 Jeep

Trailhawk Trail rated...sort of

Nightmare

Renegade is Cute but Loaded with Problems

From H2 to Trail Hawk

Best "Domestic" Cross-over available.

Good value and functional, some issues

Don't listen to auto writer snobs

High cabin noise

Problems after 60,000

A Fun SUV

Terrible with a dash of confusion

Used to love mine but...

JUNK CAR JUNK COMPANY

Reliable...that's it

One Word - Excellent!

Cheap Jeep! Beware of Money Pit.

40K miles and looking to sell

Highly Defective Substandard Suv

Everyone loves riots

MAJOR PROBLEMS WITH WATER LEAKS

Maybe I got the only good one?

do not buy

WORST DECISION EVER!

What a nightmare!

huge mistake!

Patriotic about Patriot

For $$$$ you cant beat it!

Latitude with Attitude

Only family car for tall families < $20K

Great American Value

Thrilled with Patriot

Nice Car for the Money

More fun than a barrel of monkeys

Unexpectedly nice

Love Love Love

Keeps getting better

Was I Surprised

Like a stick? Here's how to get the best 4x4 value

Please review nhtsa.gov website...this vechile stalls without warning

Great Ride!

Patriot

Some like Jeeps...

Get Your Jeep On

Annoying little issues...

Go against the flow!  Go old school!

Suba what?

Poor Gas Mileage on 2011 Patriot 4WD

Second Jeep Patriot

Nice Small SUV

Best bang for what you get out of the patriot

was looking for a used found i could afford a new

More Then Just A Refresh!

Great price and great mileage

Best Bang for the Buck

No complaints

A nice go anywhere Jeep Patriot

Excellent Value, Safe, and Reliable

Trouble, Stay Away!

I'm a Jeep fan now

Smart buy

Aggravated and disappointed!

Read this if you want the truth

9 month update

BUYERS BEWARE!!!!!

patroit sunroof leaks even after 4 visits to the dealer

Wear a raincoat.

Very Happy so far

Bought as a cheap ride, but it's much better

Safety

Good little SUV until it hit 100,000 miles

Piece of Junk

From Wonderful to Nightmare to Wonderful 

I'm tired of its bugginess.

versitle car

WORST JEEP EVER

I bought a LEMON!

Jeep rocks 

Love My Patriot

LOVE IT!!!

I Love my Jeep Patriot!

Great value, totally reliable

Like this Patriot

2012 Patriot 4x2 Latitude - Altitude Edition

Great SUV for the PRICE

Comfy but no AC

Excellent value

2010 freedom drive Latitude, trail rated badge

all i ask

Great Vehicle

Sorry I purchased a Patriot

love my patriot

Worth Every Penny

Piece of Junk

Do yourself a favor and DO NOT BUY a Jeep Patriot

Greatest little SUV that'll save your life

2012 Patriot Limited - Better than expected!

Great Vehicle, Excellent Value

Very impressed

LOVE IT!

Better than a Cute 'Ute!

The little Jeep That Could

Got Lucky I Guess

130k and going strong!

143,143 miles to date

Loving it still.... 5 years in

Chrysler ruins what had so much potential ...

It was trusty...

Great first car

JUNK transmissions

Several Problems - Water and Automatic Transmission

I Will Never Buy Another...And I Love My Jeep. 

Best transportation

After 70k Problems!

Another Bad Transmission

Loved it, but now I'm over it . . .

jeep, back in the game.

Surprisingly Jeep-like! But...incredibly comfortable.

true utility vehicle

Best SUV Deal in the USA

Good, inexpensive 4WD wagon

1993 grand cherokee

Great Car for Mountains, Town, Towing!

awesome car

Champ.

ready for all thats coming!

Wonderful vehicle

Bullet proof vehicle

So impressed I bought a 2nd one!

Excellent car!

1993 Grand Cherokee Laredo 5.2L V8 Great first car, wish I could keep it

Best vehicle I've ever owned!!

So Fun!

Regrettable purchase

New Renegade guy

Good little Jeep

tired uphill climber

Wish it were brand new

Worst Vehicle I Ever Owned

A great SUV for town and country

Blown Engine,sick sad and miserable

Italian Job

Lemon

Tight, secure, easy to get into and out of

Why all of the hate???

Dead in my garage

Wonderful little Jeep

Enjoying it... but-

Like the Renegade

Beware the 2015 Renegade

A great vehicle if you're living in Mountain Time

Could have been better

4x4 Fun, Technologically Dumb

It's good enough for Bruce Wayne...and me.

I LOVE THIS CAR!!!!

My Sand Baby

Love my Renegade

good suv but!

RUN FROM THE TRAILHAWK

Nice but buyer beware.

Impressed where less truly is more!

Love My New Patriot!

I Loooove my 2016 Jeep Patriot

Nice car for the money

Great value for simple, practical 4x4 SUV

Jeep allows you to pay for what you value

Classic Jeep lines!

Great vehicle for money!  It's all relative

Classic Jeep looks

Not the 300, but....

Professional car reviewers are worthless

Dies while driving no warning

Great Buy!!!

Nice car nomatter what anyone says

Made it through "Snowmeggedan"

Excellent ride

Sweet little Jeep

I LOVE MY 2016 PATRIOT

LOVE THIS SUV

what's not to like for $17K - $28K ?

Peppy n' Fun 2 Drive

I got a deal

2015 patriot in Myrtle Beach SC

Total Garbage

COMFORTABLE SUV - FUEL ECONOMY NOT SO GREAT

2014, 37624 miles, Plugs and More!

Reliability, style, handling

2014 Jeep Patriot the Big Mystery

Not what I wanted, but turned out to be a good car

Absolutely no problem!

HUGE disappointment! !!!!

Pro review wildly inaccurate.

Rain Rain go away

3000 Miles already Crap

Love the look and feel of this quirky vehicle!

Do. Not. Buy. A. Jeep.

First Jeep... maybe the last.

Never again Chrysler!

Great Jeep

Good Choice

Great Value

Laredo-My Reliable Friend

Beast

We love our Jeep

never again

A used car from heaven

Last Jeep

Many problems at 122K

Jeep Cherokee Laredo 2001 - Low Quality 

Excellent winter car.

A $35K piece of junk

It's not hard to say goodbye

good car

My 2001 Jeep GC Limited

2001 Black Jeep Cherokee Sport

All the problems you will encounter  

2001 Jeep Grand Cherokee 4.7L V8

Can Drain Your Wallet

2001 Jeep grand cherokee 4.7

Dependable 

Heat, defrost, ac won't work

Get what you pay for (if you buy used)

Best of the rest!

AGGGGGGGGHHHHHHH!!!!

second wj. probably last..

6yrs of problems

Never should have bought it

not reliable

grand cherokee

staller!

04 Laredo 4x4 

2004 JEEP Grande Cherokee..MORE BANG FOR THE BUCK

Limited 4.7 V8 4x4

Extended Warrenty Was a Waste of Money

Great Used  vehicle

Beautiful, powerful, but frequently in the shop

Loves to take my money 

Blah

Tough and Luxurious

I loved my Jeep!

A dream with a hemi 5.7L

Great Weekend Vehicle!

Solid, powerful Jeep 4x4

My 2005 Grand Cherokee

VERY Pleased

2004 Rocky Mountain Edition Grand Cherokee

Very reliable and well built Vehicle.

Good SUV!

Take care of it, and it will take care of you.

My 2004 2 wheel drive

MOST reliable vehicle I have known

been a good rig

Not Again

DONT DO IT! !

Its been great!

Best car I have ever owned

Love my Grand Cherokee

2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited 4.7L 4X4

Rough around the edges

my last Jeep

Awaful SUV

Get the extended warranty

Jeep

Superb Vehicle!

1st Jeep - suv owner

109,000 miles 

Pains me to say it....

Great Car!

Don't buy Chrysler products

Best suv ever

2006 Overland

Absolute Worst Vehicle and Overall Experience EVER! 

Worst car EVERRR!!!

Never again!

2007 Jeep Cherokee Needs to be Recalled

new jeeps are junk

Always Wanted an Overland

3 years later

Better than Liberty

hate this car2007 jeep gran cherokee

Great SUV - no issues

Love my 07 larado

Acceleration Problems

Excellent Ride - Envy of neighborhood

I've had 3 2005-2007 Grands and liked them all

Limited Hemi

Grand Cherokee Limited 5.7L Hemi

Transmission

2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo

Money Pit

SRT* Cherokee

2007 Cherokee stalling/accelerating problems

Made for 2 Adults and 3 kids

My Crown Jewel!

So Far So Good

Will never own another Jeep!

Spectacular!

First of many

Rather pleased to date

4th jeep and what a fail

120,000 miles going for 200,000 miles

one and only

Grand cHEROkee

Love/Hate Relationship 

Outstanding!

Fair ride if you leave it stock - more info below

Grand Cherokee still a workhorse

Very Pleased with Grand Cherokee

To drive until it dies

2003 Cheap Grand Cherokee Laredo 4WD 4.0

Bad to the bone

The Fun Stuff

FUN!!

Jeep Overland 5.7 Hemi

Do not recommend

What happened to quality?

Worst car ever

Love This Jeep!!!!

Love it!

Jeep wj

Turning into a money pit

Pretty GOOD

2002 Overland

Lots of problems

'02 Overland, Over-rated

2000 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo 4.7

2000 Laredo at 280k

Melon

185,000 and still going strong!

Holzn1

Beautiful but dies for no curable reason

My repairs cost more then my jeep

New motor and 180k miles later...

Worst car I've owned

Love my Jeep

Great All Around

Had a good one

Love my Jeep!

A Jeep is work and play.

Trend Bucking Laredo Delivers 220K Before Giving Up the Ghost

Awesome Car

Maintenance

I love my Jeep, and I wouldn't have it any other way.

High mileage and still going strong

Three Jeep Family

Great for a First Car! 

Only in a jeep

Great Mid-Sized SUV 

Proud Owner Of A Rock Solid 2002 JCG

Poor design on window motor

Expensive Junk

my first

Its problems have problems

Best Vehicle I've Ever Owned

One of the best

I LOVE my 00' Jeep Grand cherokee!

Love My Jeep.....Looking for another

First time Jeep owner

Perfect 4x4

240,000 and keeps on rolling

5.9 Jeep Rocks

No problem in blizzard/mud/rain/dessert

Best car i've ever owned

Performer, Sad to see you go

Got What I Paid For

Great Investment!

Solved the Brake Problem

Getting a bad rap

Lovin It

Distress

Limited 5.9 Still a BEAST

I love my 5.9

Decent SUV

Most sought JEEP model

This Jeep taught me everything I know about cars.

Great suv

Grand Cherokee Limited 4.7L 4WD

Grand Cherokee Limited 1999

'99 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited

mikeark

Great Vehicle

Awesome

Awesome for years

Unstoppable

A lot of good - some bad

Loved it

*** TRICK FOR YOUR electrical problems and cooling system. 

my 1999 jeep grand cherokee 16 year review

KEEP ROLLING!!!

All around perfect vehicle!

Jeep Cherokee Review

Going Strong

Hey they arn't so bad...

Jeep Stinks

Good thing I got a warranty!

I love my JGC

Nice 2 drive...

Great 1st car 

Going-Goning

Love it

Would NOT Consider any other SUV BUT....

Great 4 the $$$

178,000 miles and adding more

1997 Jeep Grand Cherokee

What a ride

Very Surprised and Pleased!!

My 4x4 2014 Patriot

It's a Jeep!

Love the car!

Don't expect a good company, or product

Surprisingly capable Jeep

2014 Jeep Patriot Sport 4x4 (6A)

Not what I wanted but still a great vehicle

Great Car, Don't Listen to "Experts"

Best Small Suv on the Market 

Impressed with the 4.0

Jeep

Bad Rear Differential

Can't expect much more

"Bullet Proof?????!!!!!" ...I think NOT!!!

Attach Stuck vehicles here!

Take care of your vehicle

great

strong car

150,000

Thank God it was a Jeep!

HARD TO BEAT A JEEP

up country down south

96 Grand Cherokee 5.2 AWD Limited

It's a Jeep Thing!!

ONE CATASTROPHE AFTER ANOTHER

280000 miles just wont die

What more can you ask for

Bought as is from a used car lot.

Still Going Strong Great S

They Got It Wrong Again!

Fun and handles light offroading

A lot of car for the money!

Bang for the buck

I mostly love my Patriot!

Disregard "expert reviews"

2014 Jeep Patriot 2.4L Latitude

Read customer reviews only! This vehicle is Great!

Incredible Value

Fun Little SUV

good value

From hater to lover

Exceeded My Expectations

First Jeep. Love it.

Jeeps rule

Just turned 15 yrs old and 200,000 miles!

Feeling its Age

the best auto i ever owed

Love this Jeep

Total Cost of Ownership (TCO)

Only in a Jeep

Jeep

Creaks but runs forever

Jeep Grand C LTD

Going for 300K miles!

!996 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo

The original suv

Better than the Last One

Jeeping!

piece of crap

Great vehicle!

My Jeep Hates me

Solid on and off road

Never seen anything like it!!!

Great... not so much

95 Grand Cherokee Laredo

Bulletproof I6

The best SUVs ever built.

Proven workhorse

I have Loved my 95 ZJ since the test drv

Worst rental I've ever had

Fooled!

2nd Patriot, even better than the first!

Very nice

Love my little Jeep.

It's a Jeep

A Tough Little Jeep

So glad I didn't buy this

2004 Grand Cherokee Laredo

Door harness quality!!!

Great Truck

Going strong

Jeep From Marty Cancila

Northern vehicle for crappy road conditions

Solid Performer

The Jeep Patriot is a great bargain

I wanted a rugged SUV..  jeep was the best choice

Big bang for the buck

SWEET CAR

2nd Jeep Cherokee

Awesome SUV

We bought two of them

good value

Glad I made the switch

Nice Truck

A capable SUV

True SUV

I am jeep

Almost a Perfect SUV

Just purchased my 2009 Jeep GC Larado

lvb

mine is faster than yours......

northland driver

3rd one

Purchased for Safety

It's Still a Jeep!

My Best Jeep

I love my first Jeep!

In the shop after 3 days

Auto Off Lights

Will see

Great Time to Buy a Grand Cherokee

Surprise, Surprise

Price was right

My Jeep

Buying another

Overall a very happy owner.

Solid vehicle, happy with my choices

Smooth ride, and Lifetime Warranty!

Nice Change

Disappointed

love the new jeep, but

KEY NOT DETECTED MESSAGE/KEY LOCK IN CAR DETECTION DONT ALWAYS WORK

Best GC so far...but not without problems

Still loving this SUV after almost 4 years

Used not abused

Great vehicle, but lousy tires

My third Grand Cherokee

First Jeep GC

LOVE THIS CAR!!!

Best car I have ever owned but...

[non-permissible content removed]

Love it!

BMW No More

First Jeep

Great Vehicle... Highly Recomended

Looks Great But!!!

Amazing ride

Dangerous shifting lever

Exceeded my expectations

Traded it after 22k miles.

Awsom

Awesome diesel technology and advanced safety tech

2015 Overland

Jeepers Not Creepers

2015 Jeep Grand Cherokee Diesel Overaland

So far, so good!

A great all around SUV

Almost great so far

Transmission Stalled and other issues -updated

Outstanding Thus Far!

Jeep Grand Cherokee a 4 Star Car in a 5 Star World

Generally a Disappointment this Time Around

By Jeeper it's a Keeper

2011 Overland Summit V8

Hemi JGC 4WD

Looks nice, rides nice, BUT...

Worst Thing that's ever Happened To Me!

Best GC yet

Do not go by its looks

Brand new Jeep Grand Cherokee Overland 

2011 JGC Key Fob Issues

Not all it's hyped up to be...JGC 2012 5.7L Overland 4x4

This Is Jeep's Finest Hour!

Problems

Perfect Jeep...Beats my BMWs!

2014 GC Summit

Diesel disaster

2014 JGC Overland Diesel 4X4 Advance Tech PKG

Don't buy a Diesel

Update after 3 weeks of ownership. Shame on Chrysler!

SorryWePurchased

Great Looking Car, Needs Help

Hideous support from Jeep, way to many problems!

Fluke or Flaw?

Faulty Transmission

Over estimated our Overland's build quality

TOTALLY DISSATIFIED

Book by its cover

Great looking, not so great to drive

8 speed trans

Diesel Disappointment

6th Time Back to Dealer for Continued Problems!

Get me out of this mess!

Stay Away:

Perfect Size True SUV

6th Grand Cherokee each keeps getting better

Love my Jeep

Clean SUV

A bit disappointed, but it sure was pretty

Great vehicl design, poor assembly

Jeep Grand Cherokee SRT8 Alpine

5 Star SUV

Jeep Grand Cherokee Trailhawk

Love this truck!

Very Disappointed.

radio problems

Overland - Interior - HORRIBLE

Transmission Fish Bite

Excellent SUV for the price!

So far, so good...

I love this vehicle so far!

2013 Grand Cherokee, love it

Style, comfort, and value

LOADED LEMON

Limited with the Altitude package

AN ANIMAL THAT DRINKS GAS

My First Jeep - My Last Jeep

Good vehicle if you can deal with the small things

Beware of Transfer Case Problems and Elecronics

Disappointed

Solid SUV with Good Gas Mileage

5th Jeep GC

Made for fun

HEMI 4x4

great car but one MAJOR problem

Really Like my Grand Cherokee Laredo 4X4 

Grand Cherokee Overland V8 4x4

cylinder misfire

Wish I never bought it

Overland Leather Dash Warped and Blistered

Over all great vehicle

Get this car if you like driving rental cars

This is one phenominal vehicle!!!

I'M NOT KIDDING.. '17 JEEP ENGINE SHUTS ITSELF OFF

Bills review

Very poor reliability

Jeep grand repairs

disappointed on my2009 jeep

I absoltuely love my JGC

Wishes for 2011!

Best SUV I've ever owned

My wife thought I was crazy

Can't Find a Better Value in the Car Market Today!

JGC Trailhawk Real Off-road Ability / Luxury Ride

Continued Problems Time after time

Finally I own Grand Cherokee SRT

Sleeper SUV

A smooth, comfortable and delightful SUV

1st time owner of SRT8

Very happy

I love it

From SRT 8 to Diesel, both great.

Used Jeep review

Descended From Greatness

Couldn't be happier

First Time Owner: Used '08 JGC - Loredo

9th Jeep!

Everything you want in a great package

Love the Diesel Power

Cherokee is good

loving it

Should have kept this instead of new 2015!

Great Jeep for fun and towing

LOVE LOVE LIKE

2008 Diesel Grand Cherokee

Love the JEEP

Love my HEMI GC!

MARCH TO THE SUMMIT

Great Bang for the Buck!

High Altitude *Eco Diesel*

Never thought I would own a jeep

One month and 1100 miles into my '16 JGC

Love my 2016 Grand Cherokee Laredo!

Great vehicle

2016 Jeep Grand 4WD LMTD

Worthless 50k SUV ever!

Great buy!

I hate the start stop

All Time Favorite Mid-Size SUV

Diesel -

Great SUV - Not liking the Stop/Start function

Jeep has stepped it up

Scared to death Loosing Power while DRIVING!!

Complete loss of power. Nice when it runs.

Compares nicely to more expensive competition

Very disappointed

the car is great but

Acura RDX is a great choice.

Overall a strong segment competitor with some significant gripes

A conundrum.

Love my car

Excellent Luxury car for the price

Sometimes it is the small stuff that counts

Significantly Less Value Than Expected

Worth the Money

RDX---first 3 months

It's great, but...

2014 RDX - Comfortable but a vibration issue ruins the fun 

A great choice - extreamly safe in an accident

Downsized from MDX

Good Value but not a Luxury SUV

Acura got it right this time

BUY A LEXUS INSTEAD!

Sensible Luxury at an Affordale Price

Great Car, Great Value

Rdx, Your almost perfect

I love my RDX.

Everything that you want - and then some

'13 Non Tech AWD RDX

Great Car

2013 RDX AWD - Great Crossover!

Love this car - getting better every day

Impressive,very impressive

Just the right amount of utility & luxury

Purchased RDX with Tech 2 weeks ago

Awesome crossover for young family

Very happy but would like more options

My husband (BMW guy) wants my RDX!!

Major improvement in comfort & gas mileage on 2013 model

Hard to impress me!

2013 RDX

After almost a year of ownership....

LOVE IT, BUT...

RDX - Outstanding value with Class

Wow

So far so good.

Like this suv

Happy Acura Driver

Nicely finished great drive with confusing Tech IF

Almost perfect RDX

Great SUV

2017 Acura RDX lemon

Very Nice vehicle

The right decision on a 2017 Acura RDX Advance

2017 Acura RDX Advance AWD

RDX > Competition

Love my new RDX!

New toy

Nice

2016 rdx w/advance pkg.

The RDX offers the best overall value for money.

Upscale SUV

Most car for the money

Great overall value.  Nice luxury features.

RDX offers the best overall value for money.

Cross Country Breakin Fantastic

Worst vehicle over $30K I've ever owned

Acura RDX 2016/Advance Package Red

Comfortable Ride with Tech Pkg to Make Geeks Happy

Test drove them all, RDX is the winner !

Very pleased with this vehicle

Happy w/ the 2014 RDX - Even Happier w/ the 2016!

Way better than expected!

My new baby

This thing is amazing! Just took delivery of it!!

Still an Awesome Ride!

Tried A Bunch- Bought the F Pace

Fantastic car

Love the Compass

Glad to get rid of it!

Terrible car experience

Compass rocks!

This is one neat Jeep

Fills the niche

Compact Jeep

New Compass Owner

Jeep should be ashamed..

DO NOT BUY THIS VEHICLE

I Love My Little Jeep

I love my Jeep Compass

Not worth buying worst car I ever owned

Always in the shop.

BUYER BEWARE! RUN AWAY

My 1990 Jeep Cherokee Laredo

90' Jeep Cherokee

27 mpg @ 168000 miles

oh i wish

Not bad at all for 14 years old!!

LOVE my Jaguar DIESEL

Short Term Review

First Jag owned since E-type

incredible power, handling, styling and sounds

This is the second modern Jag I owned, last one 2010 XKR convertible

Simply a blast

My dream car come true!

"Bad" Kitty

Awesome.....a must buy!!!!

Save your money, get the base

WOW!!!!!!

F-Type V8S

Great truck

My first new car...lasted 12 years

1993 Cherokee

Can't go wrong...

Rocky start, but worth it

Love my Jeep!

Cherokee

love my jeep

Way too good

awesome

Won't quit!

92 Cherokee Laredo

199992 Jeep Cherokee

OK

1992 Jeep Cherokee - OUTSTANDING vehicle!

Excellent automobile

Terrible Car / Forgettable experience

E Class  MB has nothing on this car!

BAD BAD RIDE. Avoid IT

Honestly.. Very Disappointed!!

Big Problems

Not quite what a luxury car should be

Better than E500

85,000 miles and here is the reality

Worst Gear Shifting I've Seen

Most Reliable I've owned

Owner/driver

The Gold Rimed Jeep

The thing is a BEAST

Everyone should own one

Just bought a 3.8 Genesis Sedan

Bad Tires O Genesis

Long-term Update

Do not buy - brakes fail on lots of HYUNDAIs

MY GENESIS 4.6

Love My Genesis

Saved my life

I Must Have The Only Lemon They Made or Do I ?

Great car even with problems

Good car for your money

Bulletproof '92 Cherokee Laredo 4.0l

reliable, efficient, powerful

love hate relationship

Very Versatile Vehicle

Best 4X4 Ever

reliable & tough

ALL THINGS CONSIDERED...

Love

Urban Warrior

MY LAST ONE...

awsome 93 cherokee

perfect jeep

love it

My 93 is great

jeep

Excellent Vehicle

Killer Jeeps

One reliable, hard-working vehicle!

Recall Issues with dealerships

repairs so far

The Jeep That Could (Jeep Cheeroke Sport

Built like a tank

The jeep

Great truck

Very pleased

Vic's first but not last Cherokee 4X4

Great Car!!

Bullet Proof

greatest vehicle ever made

My 91 will run forever

It's A Jeep Thang!

Back when...

Reliable SUV

Love these Jeeps

Trusty Brick

NICE JEEP

Hang on to it Baby

Not too reliable

Love it!

Most reliable SUV...Period

Great car! Still has jaguar quirks

BMW and Audi Take Note

Love my new jag

A loyal 3-Series Fan...Converted to the cat...

Love my first jag

Worst Car I Ever Purchased, SUPER CHEAP

Dream Come True

Feisty and Fun

Amazingly fun drivers car.

the car!

Jaguar XE 35t

Jaguar XE - the modern successor to the 3.8 Mark2

New Jaguar XE 2.5t

Better than the Germans!

Great to Drive...Awful Technology

i love it

Runs Forever

Not What I Expected

Nov 02 Review

Best jeeps ever

POS!!!

It was fun

my cheap jeep

excellent car

awesome suv

Jeep is Excellent!

the jeep review

Family of Jeeps

SOLID Jeep

My faithful friend

10+ Months/11k+ Miles Later...

My Dream Lux Exotic Sport

Don't think twice, think three times BEFORE BUYING

Lots of fun... Sometimes

Extremely disappoited with the vehicle

Great!!!

A dream car - with a stick no less!

Jag F-Type

First Jaguar, no dissapointment

It's a Jeep thing!

NW Compass

J.E.E.P- Just. Empty. Every. Pocket!

Does not age gracefully...

BUYER BEWARE

Excellent Midsize SUV Choice

A working piece of art!

An amazing experience so far

F-Pace Sport- Shopping

F-Pace

Fantastic car.

Best highedr performance vehicle I've ever owned

20 D -180 hp much better than you think

F Pace "S"

Sports Car in Jaguar Cat's Clothing...

F-Pace is an ACE

Jaguar hits a home run

Wonderful

So happy I could purrrrr.

I Have A Lemon

Incredible car, comfort, value, styling

Great Value

Look no further...

Best car for 2016

Luxurious

AWD Genesis Ultimate

Never thought I'd go from a S550 MB to a Hyundai!

A Bentley done by Koreans

Genesis - The good and bad

Can't believe it

I didn't want this car. But I'm glad I have it.

WOW! MB E350 vs Hyundai Genesis 3.8

Update

Bought a Second '12 Genesis

A lot of car for the $$$ but...

2013 Genesis Sedan V6 Technology & Premium

Canadian purchaser

LOVE MY GENESIS

Fun and Smooth, but beware of snow!

A Nice Ride

Nice Ride

Never had issue with this car.

I feel like I stole it!

BEST SO FAR

Pass It on

The Elvismobile

Lot of car for the money

nice ride II

2013 genesis 3.8L Sedan - Little things

Nice car but do have some issues and 1 I will soon

22,000+miles and still a great car

My first luxury sedan experience

Great value for money

Nice car , BUT...

Service

Best car for the money

Great Car

RSPEC   2013  by  brian125

A great car

Is this thing really a HUNDAI?

worth the $$

Still running strong after nearly  yrs

Jeep Cherokee

Teen-age sons wants my 9-year-old Jeep

A reliable off-roader, despite the rep.

baD CAe

New Jeep fan

well

Strongest 4 letter word

What a Beast !!!

I love this Jeep

JEEP

I love this Jeep

Best vehicle I ever owned

Love our Country!

haw met or exceeded needs

Love my Jeep

It's just alright

205800 miles and going strong

I love my jeep

What a great car, just not comfortable

FLYING OUT THE WINDOW..

Good car

Honest Facts

Best Hyundai effort yet

Very, very fun

Driving the first Genesis Coupe in town

Genesis coupe buyers BEWARE

love my Genesis Coupe

Trade in values for hyundai

Love it! Love it! Absolutely love it!

What a car!

I would not buy this car again.

5+ yrs and 100k miles and I want to buy it again!

Great car for the money

Cheap yet Expensive parts = Buyer aware

"I didn't know Hyundai built sports cars!"

BEST CAR EVER!!!

Best car I've ever owned!

My Butt Hurts

Jeepers--no creepers

It was my dream car, but....

Jeep

Good Vehicle

1997 Cherokee Sport

Only in a Jeep

Hunk of Junk

Cherokee's are not real Jeeps?

outstanding vehicle

Beware

Fun on the road

Great Jeep

There is nothing like a Jeep

Love my Cherokee

Love it, can't find anything better

OIIIIO thrills

I LOVE THIS THING!

Endless reliability internally, falling apart externally

The Jeep Thing

97 Cherokee

lovin it

The best Jeep ever

Jeep!

Do these things ever die?

96 XJ SE 

Bullit Proof

All 4 corners of the US and back again

Still Kickin

Dependable and Low Maintenance

A true SUV icon. 

A Simple Cargo-Truck 4X4 (XJ) For A Simple Man

i own 4 jeep cherokees

See ya Cherokee

1996 lifted cherokee country 4wd

96 Cherokee Country - Country Trim - Original

Fun Car

Tons of fun to drive, but the ent. Tech sucks

Great fun car!

"Just right" four wheel drive

The Little Beast

fun

Best SUV Jeep has ever made

Why did they quit maiking these?

95' Jeep Cherokee owner review

Love My Jeep!

cheap drive train

Stisfied

Very Happy With My Jeep!

If they still made these, I would BUY 1

I Can't live without my JEEP!

Peppy performer

Really Fun Car

Fun while it lasted

Can't beat it!

Best SUV you can ever buy!

Loved my Jeep

Many miles - cheaper than new

They dont make them like they used to...

the best jeep 4.0L

Happy with 95 Cherokee

Work Horse

300,000 And Still Chugging Alone!

my 1st.4x4

Fun, Original, and Great Looking

the little car that could

Value

Lots of fun ... Punchy and ba**sy

I LOVE my new Genesis Coupe!

Good looking and fun, with many build quality issues

Not worth it!

My First GenCoupe

Excellent Choice

2013 R spec 2.0T Outstanding value!

great car, questionable warranty support 

Best sports coupe for the buck

Gen coupe Number 2

Defective Car-Hyundai refuses to Fix

Fun car, very quick

After 3 years

Factory Warranty is a joke

Fast fun on wheels

So glad I chose this car!

3 plus years and 80000 miles later..........

Don't judge a book by its cover

Genesis Coupe 2013 3.8 track

Greatly improved

Zen Coup Nice....

Everything I Thought It Would Be, But...

Genesis Coupe is an absolute blast!

Best Car I have ever owned!!!!!!!!!!

Disappointing

Love this car, but...

2013 Premium 2.0T Automatic

2013 Genesis waste gate Rattle!!!

KDM power

Love this car!

Never thought I'd love a Hyundau

Features and performance that undercuts the segment.

I cant stop looking at it

Stay away from the 2.0T

Don't buy a Hyundai Genesis

Better than my TL!

Genesis Coupe is on the Market

My First Car, but she's a beauty

Outstanding Choice

surprising coupe

Awesome Car

Superb sports car for the money.

Best Bang for the Buck

Fabulous Car

Great first car.

My first new car

Fast, Fun to drive coupe at a budget price

IN LOVE with this car...Civic SI Convert

Not to be expected of Hyundai

2nd Hyundai and LOVING IT!

Drive before you buy!

Very good to excellent in every way.

2011 Genesis 4.6

Great value, Refined with class

All I can say is WOW!

Smooth

VERY COMFORTABLE CAR

Off the charts.

Huge value for your money...

Quicker than you think

WONDERFUL CAR!!!!!

Genesis Sedan 3.8L V-6, loaded

Now Have 41,000 miles on near perfect car.

Do yourself and family a favor and buy one

Best luxury car value

2011 4.6 Black on Tan

Love this car!

Good but annoying..

Exceptional value!!

Outstanding Car.....Dealers Suck

Hyundai Genesis after 1 year.......

Problems with door locks

Switched from a BMW to a Genesis

Big bargain!

Nothing better for twice the price

Amazing Machine

One Year After Purchase

What is Edmunds thinking!!!

Best car I've ever bought.  

2015 Hyundai Genesis w/ Ultimate Package

Best kept secret!

Great Value

So far, so good...

Love This Car!

So far so good, but one aggravation

Inteligent choice for a emotional decision

Awesome Car

Nice car for the money

Truly Awesome

LOVE THIS CAR

Great Car

R Spec Genesis WOW!!

Love it......but

Excellent car... hands down.

Impress yourself.

Great car so far!

Built BMW's for a living, this car is better!

Lots for the Money

As the other reviews say, What A Find!

I Traded My Lexus GS430 - Total Happy

Very Impressed with the 2012 Genesis

Nearly Perfect in every way

can't complain - lots of car for the money

Amazing Car

Great car, when its not having issues!

This car is amazing

Taking it Back

Fantastic car

Genesis Sedan is quite a looker

BEST SEDAN ON THE ROAD

Excellent Value!

Good, but not Excellent

Good but not Great

MOST HONEST REVIEW = B+ Grade

I love my new Genesis!

2016 Genny 3.8 Tech RWD is a price performer

Brand new Genesis

Truly a value compared to anything else!

Watch out for Hyundia!

Wow - What a Car

Hyundai's Head-Turner!

Kudo's to Genesis!

Wonderful Vehicle

Extremely Happy With Choice

Great car overall, but associated costs can be...

What an excellent surprise!

Engine Noise

Driven 7 months so far

There must be two Genesis sedans

Great value and excellent performance

Very good but something missing

My Hyundai Genesis

2010 Genesis Sedan

Best Luxury Car - Especially the Price

Just went through our first Colorado Snow storm

2016 Jeep Cherokee Trailhawk 2.4L 4 Cycle

Ride and handling other suv's wish they had

Stay away

DON'T BUY A CHEROKEE!!

Like a Mini Grand Cherokee!

Wife's Dream Vehicle

2017 4WD 6 cyl  The Latitude with Attitude

Good small SUV that offers 6 cylinder

Still at the trailhead for the Trailhawk

GREAT SMALL SUV, WE LOVE OUR CHEROKEE!

Economical SUV

Great sales person

new jeep overland

Good small SUV that offers 6 cylinder

Crappy Craftsmanship

What a beauty!

Mopeds pass me

it's ok - not great

not worth the money

Undervalued, in my opinion.

badass jeep cherokee

Die hard Jeep fan

Definitely Won't be in The Market for Another Jeep

engine fails at 36,000 miles

Fun Jeep -- Increasing Cost of Ownership

Not that great.....

Pure Jeep

awesome vehicle

Longest Relationship To Date

Great vehicle if you can turn a wrench

1999 Jeep Cherokee Sport

Amazing car

Love my Jeep!

Great off road vehicle

An old work horse

Great Little SUV

IT'S A BEAST UNSTOPPABLE TANK

lots of repairs on a 7 yr old vehicle

Really???

Discussed

Disappointed

Great little car

Rally E

60 day review

Fun, Practical, Unique styling

Possible Problems?

fun to drive

20MPG, GPS, bluetooth, Comfort

The little Jeep that could

Fun, reliable, useful

Fun & Reliable

Great Car - Great Value

DONT BUY THIS P.O. S. .

Surprisingly reliable

roll-backs

I like it!

HA!!!!!

So disappointed

What a fun car!

Love it!

Great small SUV

look at the 2009

2009 Jeep Compass Crysler

Needs some work

Great Crossover

Syracuse to OC 12/19-22/09

Great Deal

Fun little car!

don't buy Jeep

It's a Love/Hate relationship

2014 much better than older models

Great adgility for around town .

Another Good Jeep

I Love it!

Great car!!!

Low cost SUV

Excellent little 4x4 SUV, Still........

Zippy, economical car

A Neat Little Rig

Terrible car

Jeep compass purchase (2014)

Not bad for the money, dont pay sticker though

Bought and have had nothing but problems

Jeep should be ashamed!

It's a car probably made more for a lady

Not a Bad Deal!

Holy Blind Spots Batman!

2015 Jeep Compass sport 2.4L manual

The little Jeep that couldnt....

My no good car

go buy something  else

Don't listen to the critics!

Perfect for me, and what a deal!

Sick of noisy Jeep

So Far So Good

Worst Rental Ever

Airman

The Little 4x4 that Could

Affordable Compact SUV

GET A JEEP COMPASS

Great Value

Jeepy

Love My Compass!

Try it for yourself

Fits my needs perfectly

Great small family vehicle

Mine is sluggish

Jeep Compass Latitude is da bomb!

Great unexpected buy

A lot to offer for the price

Bad car to buy

Cherokee lite?

I'm impressed!

Good Vehicle all Around

Heartache with Chrysler

15 Months later

A Solid and Reliable Vehicle

Great Buy

Transmission concerns

Pleasant but ...

2010 Jeep Compass 4DR 4WD Sport 

Loving it!

Really think about buying

Fuel

Compass Is A Great Value!

New purchase

Great car to scale down to

Jeep has a winner!

love my compass

Outstanding, practical vehicle

Thanks to Edmunds for the poor review

Sport (2.4L 4-cyl, 4x4 CVT automatic)

Impressed so far

Texas Compass with Latitude

Dangerous on Highway

Worst car I have ever owned

Would probably never buy again. 

 worst  jeep ever

A total nightmare

Massive Oil Leak on 2011 Jeep Compass

Outstanding in Snow

Back in the Jeep family and LOVE it!!!

2011 Compass

She loves her Jeep

So far so good

I love it

Perfect vehicle for us

Look elsewhere

Excellent Choice     2011 Jeep Compass 

Just Purchased 2011 Compass and Lovin' it!!

Jeep Compass 2011 

HOT LOOKING, BUT SMALL

Go with the automatic :()

Bye, Bye Jeep...

Great car

Cherokee Sport

It was fun and real but not real fun

Love Love

Dream vehicle-Ol' Blue

Hi-N-Low desert runner

Reliable

Champion

Love it

Buy something else!

Do Not Buy this car!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Jeep what???

3 x's a charm 5 times a nightmare

Great car, bad transmission

Perfect on all counts!

The engine may outlast me!

Will be buried in it....

Best choice for a second vehicle or fun toy.

180000 miles great SUV until it was totalled 

Beauty with no brains

Have this car checked Immediately 

UPDATED REVIEW after 17k miles experience.

DO NOT BUY THIS UNTIL TRANSMISSION PROBLEMS RESOLVED BY CHRYSLER

Transmission Broken at 2200 miles! Regret Buying!

Do your research

OMG don't buy this car!!!

9 Speed Transmission,Great idea but poor execution

Don't Buy a JEEP CHEROKEE 2015

Transmission SUCKS and alot of JERKING !!!!!!!!!!!

Great for the first 5 yrs

Seven year switch

Perfect Small SUV

Love this baby Jeep

Zippy

2015 V6 Trailhawk LEMON!

Fleet Technician's take on the 2014-2016 Cherokee

Issues, Issues, Issues

Don't buy it.  Chrysler can't or won't fix it.

lemon law buy back finally DONE

Warning!  Stay away!

DONT! Just DONT!!!!!!!

Do Not Buy This Piece of Garbage

Buyer Beware!!!!!

Worst car I've ever owned

Just walk away

Jeep cherokee 2014

Best SUV Ever!!! Very Happy with Purchase!

No confidence in Jeep

Great idea - poor transmission / reliability

Quite a SUV

Cherokee Limited V6 4 x 4

Tall Wagon With Jeep MoJo - Hot

New Transmission at 2K miles!

Terrible Transmission!

Great Car

Love my jeep

Love my Jeep

I love my jeep

An off-road beast

Trailhawk V-6

Love my Cherokee!

Couldn't be happier with our Trailhawk!

From X5 to Cherokee Latitude

Love our 2014 Trailhawk

Get one and you'll want to keep it forev

Tires, Battery, Belt, Shocks, Brakes 

Great Jeep...

Great Car

My prayer was answered

The Best SUV Ever

built strong

Could not be better! 

A Real SUV...

Jeep is Great!

I like It.

forrest service "Gump" green

Love the XJ!!!

Love this thing

I can't let her go 2000 jeep cherokee 4x4

Best Vehicle EVER!!!

MY RED BABY!

You know you're getting there in a cherokee

Best Jeep ever

The Family Truckster

Excellent Spare/Snow Vehicle

1998 Jeep is not too exciting

Just What I Need

Still going strong

Wish they still made these.

BRING IT BACK PLEASE! BEST JEEP EVER!!!!

Best vehicle I'll ever own

Southern Jeep

Won't die unless YOU kill it

Expected more...

absolutely indestructible

Bring back the Jeep Cherokee

Best auto I have ever owned!

Just kept going and going

98 jeep xj 

WILL...NOT...DIE!

i will always own a cherokee

Are you a man or not?

Mange another Half million miles?

One of the best Jeep ever

Cherokee tops Honda CRV ..USA,USA, USA

Love my little Jeep

it's a JEEP with luxury and sophistication !

After checking out all options

6 cyl Latatude

A different look!

Soggy 2016 Jeep Cherokee lemon

AWSOME TRAILHAWK V6

Great Little Jeep

I love this SUV!

Very nice vehicle

Quite possibly the best vehicle we have ever owned

Cherokee Trailhawk 3.2L - The dream SUV

Go to another dealer for work

Jeep Cherokee Up Hill or Down Hill?

Get the V6

2016 Cherokee Laditude 4WD 6 cylinder

This is our second one

A Hunk of Junk !!!!! DEFINITELY a lemon!

Awesome SUV

My 1959 Mini was faster, more agile and more fun.

Awesome

Piece of Junk!

Horrid car

Worst Car Ever

few problems with it

leased 2016 Jeep Compass

Great vehicle

Never, ever buy this car

Be Careful

Inferior Vehicle to Others in Same Class

Such a disappointment

2016 Jeep Compass High Altitude 4X4 6 Speed Auto

Small Gas Tank

Worst car I've driven in years

SolI'm d, steady performer

I like it. It's not perfect but,

In defense of the Compass

Great Jeep

I guess I got lucky?

Compass is a great buy

Worst car ever!

Bad investment!!

If I Could Do it Over Again.......

Couldn't believe I bought a NEW car!

Great Car!

Hyundai EQUUS Signature

Disappointed

Soccer Mom Needs More Assistance

Fantastic and Spacious SUV

Beautiful car, but luxury requires better details

Q50

Great car with a couple problems

very satisfied

Love it

"5  STAR  BARGAIN"

Lauries  QX50

Still waiting to be amazed

Everyday I wait to see what will be wrong next

I rented this for a week and went 2000 miles

Fancy, sleek, but not worth the dollars

I lease a 2016 qx60 very comfortable lots of space

Absolutely in Love with my New QX60

Luxury Family SUV

Great SUV

Excellent Choice

improved looks and handling, space in infotainment

DEATH TRAP ! ! ! !  LEMON

"5  STAR  BARGAIN"

I wish I still had my 2014 QX50

The car great...the resale ho hum

Death Trap ! ! ! !  !

Initial Disappointment

A lovely SUV!

Extremely nice

Infinite a GREAT surprise and hidden gem.

Great vehicle.

Utter Disapointment

Big Bang for the Buck

Infiniti QX 2015

Great family SUV

Lexus RX with 3rd row (now with sport package)

2016 QX60 Few months of Ownership

2016 QX60 Beware of Problems

EXCELLENT FAMILY SUV

Minivan Convert

Love the fancy features!

I love my Infinti QX60

Spacious family SUV with a great value for money !

This is it.

This one is a keeper

One year later, going strong

Great Value, Comfort and Technology

So far, extremely satisfied

Great Upscale a Family Hauler

As much time in the shop as at home

Total Sham!!!

The Hybrid Engine is a Scam!

What a dissapointment

Not what I thought I was getting

Buyer beware

Comfort and Fuel Economy

Don't buy this car

Not the quality we expected

Passenger Unsafe At Any Speed

Don't Do It!

Constant creaking and rattling

Awesome family Hauler

Waste of Money

2014 Infiniti QX 60 Ignition Would Not Shut Off!

Infiniti offers horrible support

Dangerous Vehicle!!!

Major problem with this car - DO NOT BUY THE HYBRID!!

Loved it, but showing some concerns with time

Gas mileage not as advertised 

My Infiniti

Infiniti QX 50 classy luxury SUV

Lots of comfort and lots of room

3rd row for hobbits or small children only.

A winner

Everyone looking in this segment, test drive Equus

Better than Lexus LS 460

Best car ever driven by me.

Last vehicle I will want!

Nice mid size suv

2016 Qx50 is not a luxury suv/crossover.

Real sleeper

A sports car marketed as an SUV

2 Leased QX50s For Less Than Price of 1 BMW X3

Great sporty crossover

Its Just OK

The best thing about this car is................

I LOVE this car! Infiniti has another winner!

Very happy with this 2016 QX50

Excellent Value

Great Crossover

A Sleeper of an SUV

I have been SCAMMED by Germans !!!

Best Bang for your buck

Some poor engineering ,quality issues, terrible buying experience

Equus Ultimate ? NOT

it's just a car

No complaints

Hamdogan

Equus - 2012 with a bigger engine

Top of the line luxury at a fraction of the cost

Most Enjoyable Car I Ever Owned!!

Defective engine

My new Equus- 2012 model

NOT COMFORTABLE

Hyundai customer service is awful

My mini Bentley

2013 Equus Review

Best Value

Mine is 3 years old!

Equus - Beware of unfulfilled promises!!!!!

Its Not A Lexus But It Doesn't Charge to Be One

2011 Equus  - sudden acceleration 

Outstanding car and value

Equus Ultimate trumps S600 or 750

Finest Car we ever owned!!!!!!  But un-reliable!!

Dissapointed with my buy, please don't make the same mistake 

2011 Equus Ultimate IS Just That...

GREAT CAR. BETTER THAN S CLASS!

Effortless Elegance

Great value, but you get what you pay for...

A lot of car for the money

Unbelievable Car

2011 Ultimate review - Great Job Hyundai!

Class

An outstanding car at an ordinary price

I traded a BMW 745i for the 2011 Equus

Amazing car & incredible price

Unbelievable value

Hyundai Equus Signature

Great Price Performance

Excellent value for the price, amazing deal

What a great car!

What a great car!

Not for everyone & it's not an SUV

ROCKY MOUNTAIN HIGH

Very Impressed

Versatilely, Reliability, Comfort & Value

Don't be a fool!!!

Replacement for 2013 JX35

Qx60 test drive

Qx60 test drive

An SUV that does everything really well.

QX60

Meh...not really that impressed

2017 QX70 Limited

Love the look. Hate the car

excellent!!!!!!!

New to Hyndai products

never buy in your life hyunadi Equus

2800 miles and first issue surfaced

The real truth about Equus

Luxury BMW type car without the price and more

2016 Equus

The best luxury car for the money

Ex Mercedes/BMW & Current LS460 Owners

Out with the 11 and in with the 16

Love it!

3rd Time Buyer

when you hit passing gear about 60 mph  hang on

Fantastic vehicle

A Bently is Still a Bently

Disappointed in Bentley

Fabulous Vehicle

2006 Bentley Continental GT

Bentley Good, but Not Great

Nothing Else Quite Like It

The Bentley

Great Performance Hampered by Horrible Technology

not a brand slave

2016  Q70 L Beauty

very poor tech package

Noisy suspension

a $58,000 mistake

The "Pros" Are All Wrong!

Great Car

Not Another Lexus

Great Car

Great car

4th infiniti

Keeps getting better!

Super fast and stylish with power

Three weeks in......

Great car!  Love it so far!

Great so far

This car looks great on paper

Best Car I've owned

Super roomy

Buyers Remorse....

The Least Reliable Luxury Sedan, Poor Quality ever

Good car  - Reached a ton before buying!

A Beautiful Machine

Luxury Car Of The Year !

Luxury sport sedan for family

Love my Q50 but... What were they thinking???

Excellent New Model

Initial reviewer has a case of sour grapes

Q50 experience-15 months later

Ordinary driver's review after 2 months

Hate this car - can't wait to get rid of it

NOISEY, POOR INFO SYSTEM

Despite its shortcomings, I love my car

best car i ever owned

My last Infiniti

Not Bad

Three years and still an Awesome vehicle

Almost perfect

Don't let the reviews scare you!

Rattle in the dash with less than 200 miles

Vroooom!!!

A Driver's car, updated

New to Infiniti

Direct Adaptive Steering performs poorly

Unsung Hero 

not just a Nissan anymore

Timing is everything

Surprise!

Great Car! Great Performance

My first brand new car.

Former G owner

the capability to be good but not a bad car

Bought my q50s awd with Nav and Deluxe package.

Probably the best car in its class

a ghost in my car !!! (2)

2015 Infiniti Q50

Overlooked Option

Loved my G's, but the Q50 is a beaut!

Unpredictable acceleration, uneven stops

Surprised how much I like it.

Rocket ship

Q50, Slicing Through the Wind

Q50 redsport

Discomfort Drivers Seat

Dealerships coint

Catch me if you can

Great car...understated and unappreciated

The Ultimate Sleeper Sedan

The best car I have owned, totally fun to drive

2016 Q50 Red Sport Awd

Love it!

Best car I've driven in this price range.

From G37 to Q50

My New Q50

Better than BMW,Audi and Benz

Excellent car!

Once again EDMUNDS is wrong about this car!!

Easily one of the best in class

Great car at a great price

Problems: If you want more problems than you......

Incredible value on an excellent car!

Better than my Tesla!

Terrific car

Infiniti Q70S: Underrated, High Value

The Edmunds reviewer is flat out wrong....

Former Mercedes owner says Infinity better car

Impressive Q70L

Edmunds Reporter is flat wrong!!

Great ride for tall guys

Best car in class...what went wrong Edmunds???

Great Infiniti QX80 Ownership Experience

Climate Control Issues

Do Not buy this SUV

underwhelmed

Bought the "best" and am disappointed

2016 QX80 Test Drive

Does not hold Value

Like driving a very thirsty cloud

2000 miles on the Range (and the mountains)!

Great  overall SUV

RoadTrip

Climate Control Issues

Overall good quality

Great car

Should have done it sooner

Best Money can buy

Best Car for the Year 2010

The Second Best Sport Sedan

Best Car Ever

One World Class Drive

Porsche Panamera 4S

Very nice interior

One week after delivery...

The BEST all round vehicle

Parking position jump to reverse

Fun Fast and Beautiful

Just Awesome!

Nice little van

Good for small paint companies

First Test Drive - Not Yet Acquired

Luxury Can't Get Any Better

The Great Car

Underated

Refined Quality

Review Update... IT STILL SUCKS!!!

Total junk

Stay Away

Dodge 1500 poor build

Don't buy!

Great Van, Just Hope it Doesn't Break

Promaster is Junk, Transmission wont last,

Don't buy a Ram Promaster

this van is the biggest mistake buying it it pure

2014 Ram Promaster 3500 - stay away van

Lemon

Warning do not purchase ProMaster

New Promaster, Run away, just Run away.....

2017 is a total piece of trash!

Hey ice cream man;

2014 ProMaster Converted to RV

please do your homework

It's just a junk 2016 promaster

Leaky ProMaster that cant be fixed

The price of fruit is HIGH! this truck = Yellow

So far so good.

1yr and loving it!

Very satisfied

Riding high in the Dodge Promaster

Go with the Transit or the Sprinter

Terrible, run fast!

Don't waste your time or money!!

Doubled My Fuel Economy

Versatile

Makes a great RV

This thing is a freaking nightmare

not a happy driver

Just Bought Our Third

Promaster, long wheelbase EXT.

Can hear me coming a mile away

The Phantom Review

Phantom 2005

Lap of Luxury

do not bay this crap vane

Stay away!

Every contractor or delivery person should own it!

Gynormus Bully Boy

3.0 diesel

Should have believed the bad reviews.

I owned, GMC and FORD and DODGE vans

WAY better than my GMC Savanna

, spend more time in shops due to check engine

48000miles and transmission is shot.

Awesome

cheaply built

worst car i have ever owned

The best car of the whole world

Awesome

Just Superb

Fabulous

Not a bad car, all considering

Wow

It could be WAY better

An old Man's wheelchair

panamera 4s

Best car ever

Porsche Panamera Turbo

Love on 4 wheels

Awesome!

Poor Engineering or a lemon?

No complaints

This car is excellent!

4 door 911 turbo update

What can't my Promaster City Wagon do?

Promaster City Wagon SLT

Renting to see if worth it

Still unsure

Maybe you should look just a little longer!

Supreme Of The Creme On The Road

They're good but watch out

30000 miles per year

my  car

Luxury and style

Not a fun unit to drive

20 years after it was built

Nice but should be better

1994 S600

My First Mercedes

Great while it lasted

Wow!

The car for real enthusiasts 

Sooo Pretty

Class with Flash

great car

Mercedes S320 - 1994

positive experience

One of the safest cars around

400SEL S420 S CLASS W140

How to buy a Maserati

Not Ready for Prime-Time Player

A Not Ready for Prime Time Player

 Looks Good But Hunk Of Junk

Dangerous Car, Non-existent customer Serivce

Race Car Performance / Luxurious 4 Door

If looks really were everything . . .

Maserati Quattroporte Dream

Poor Quality

Worst Quality EVER

Kill me now.  Mazda MX5 RF Launch Edition

Red hot little sports car!

rf club brembo

Smiling all the way

Mazda Miata MX-5 RF GT

"The same but different!"

Everything you want and more!

First Impressions

Zoom, Zoom Just Got More Fun

Beautiful, fun, weekend car

What a Blast to drive!

Best Looking Convertible in price range

For someone that likes a big sporty vehicle

Nice Vehicle But Many Annoyances

Sports SUV?  Yes!

Good car when you need to trade in your Coupe

No more Snooze button on the Alarm

Good value, lots of room.

I love my new Ram Promaster City van!

magnificent

Deep Regret

The Ultimate in Luxurious Automobiles

Skip the drophead coupe!

Simply the best

I love this CAR!!!

If you can, do it!

love, love it!!!!

Great Suv - drives like a sports cat

Safety First - He ran a red light!

Pocket rocket

The car has 22500 miles and is great.

My 22nd new vehicle

Forgot I am driving an SUV

Best of Both Worlds: Sports Car and Space

Best handling SUV on the market

Best Luxury SUV

Sport Sedan in an SUV Body

If you like to be different from the crowd

Life is too short not to drive an awesome car

Wow, No disappointment here!

2011 Porsche Panamera 4

Amazing Vehicle

Pure Porsche, But Evolved

Mixed review...want to love it

Panamera 4 review

Phenomenal 2011 Panamera 4 Sport Sedan

Panamera Sports Sedan

Great sports car

Among the best! If you don't like the design - see it in person!

Great looks, poor reliability

Porsche misses big

First Porsche Macan S- IN LOVE!

A sport car with Compact SUV look.

Pretty darn fast

Love my Little White Sweetheart W/ Red interior

wow! update "double wow" 2017 Macan S

17,000 miles in a year and I have three other cars

Great driver but poor technology

Fun - Safety - sure-footed on the road - Love-it!

Great car

2016 Porsche Macan S

great car

Waiting for our Macan S to arrive in port

The Twin Turbo

Smooth ride, excellent performance, maneuverable!

Bribed wife to swap with my car

When performance meets luxury, beauty & co

Best ride around

What a great car!

The Mecan

Practical Porsche

Excellent

Buy One Buy Two

Great car

great car

This car is before its time!

GREAT CAR!

Old Reliable

Luxury Liner

Marquis

The last rock-solid S-Class

Fun but Expensive to Maintain

ultimate motoring

Riding deep for cheap

Super Auto

Finest car made at any price - bar none

New buyer /older car

Niko

My Mercedes S-320 (1999)

1992 600SEL+1999 S600

WORST CAR EVER

expensive

S420 - The only car

S500 disspointment

Too Many Glitches for $100k car

S500 review

Mercedes Benz S500 year 2001

Electrical nightmare

Wha-hawpen?

Pay to Play

falling apart S430

Nice Car.  A monster

2001 S500

Don't buy Mercedes S500

Going back to Infinity Lexus or Acura

Expensive to maintain

The World Best Car

Ultimate Driving Machine

The Best In The World !!!

Mercedes really messed up!

745i Has NOTHING on the S-Class

what a mess

TRUE AUTOMOTIVE GENIUS

Plan to drive for quite some time.....

Poor Mrecedes

2002   S430 : So far so good!!

2002 Mercedes S430

My Benz

VERY EXPENSIVE TO REPAIR

Straight talk on heavy repair costs

Balanced perspective

My sad experience with my S600!

2002 s430 /s500

7 Years and no troubles

Attitude of MB Corp.

Great Car

Best in class Style Price.. except Value

Best Mercedes Yet

Extravagant and Exuberant!

best vehical purchace of my life

S 430 -The greatest   

Close to Perfection

Sleek, powerful, problematic

2003 S430 purchased 2006; good overall value

Love My Car

When only the best will do

A truly great automobile

S55 AMG

Excellent Car!!

BEAUTIFUL DRAMA QUEEN

Biggest rip off ever

My Benz

Horizon Blue Benz

The best car ever

Dream Car (almost)

This car has everything! Performance/Styling/ Comfortable

S600 SuperCar

Farewell to all that

2003 S500

Maybe the Best Sedan in the World

I miss my BMW 750iL

Straight Line Speed and Comfort

Mercedes= quality- Not anymore sadly 

This car was created as a joke from MB

S500

I love my MB

Luxury Family Sedan

Great car; expensive to maintain

Mercedes Does Not Mean Quality

Greatest of autos

MY FIRST CAR!!!!

Jaison's review of 2000 S430

Nightmare

Buyer should know better...

Mercedes S430

Poor delivery, poor dealership

ARE YOU GUYS NUTS?

TOO MANY PROBLEMS

Super automobile

No other car compares....

Beware of Dealers

Money Pit

S 500 not a lexus but a great car

Ultimate Highway Cruiser

20 years of Mercedes ownership and never as happy!

Excellent ride, comfort, safety

6 YEARS AND I HAVE ACHIEVED MY DREAM MACHINE

Traded my 2000 S-type

Best Mercedes out there

resale value went byby

Great Car.

We call it "Papa Bear Car"

First time buyer

When MB S420 was still a distinctive Car

Best Mercedes I have owned

STATELY BENZ

finest car made

S320 Mercedes 

1998 S420

Must be Crazy

Solid automobile.

S Class Quality

Best car in the world.

1998 S320 LWB (6) Year Owner

Saved my Life

a trusted friend

S320SWB

Best car ever

1996 S500 Coupe

MB S600

Best Car at 60+ mph

Excellent preowned luxury car.

My Last Mercedes

Style and Class-The S class

Don't buy this car!

420S Mercedes/not driven much

Special experience

1997 S500 - The Last Great Benz

Best car I've ever had.

hot

500 S coupe

THE BEST CAR EVER!!!!! MERCEDES FOR SURE

Great Wheels

Speed, smooth, solid nickle & dimer

The very best Mercedes ever built

The Black beauty

battlecruiser

The German tank

Black Beauty

Amazing Benz!

Last of the good Benzes

repair-a-month

Be aware

repair-a-month

Bye Mercedes

Living Room On Wheels

S420

S500

A great Luxury automobile

They don't make them....

Land Yacht

95 S420 my dream come true

S600

 I wish they still made this car!!!

Built Without Regard To Expense

S 600 coupe is just okay,

Fantastic and Sublime

Huge dissapointment!!

Porsche with room for friends but not a SUV.

Disappointing Performance

Turbo time in a 2015 Panamera Turbo

Great lease deal

They REALLY know what we want!

Amazing Automobile!!!

Fun driving!

Headturner

My first Porsche (updated)

Black Magic box

Biggest mistake ever

Mercedes S- class

What a car!

Luxury, Performance, and Fuel Economy   

Good value for a Great car

Engineering excellence?

Just bought this in Silver (S430 4Matic)

WOW

the 2002 S class

s430

Bad news 

Maserati... Not Ready for Prime Time!

Maserati QP is a Four Door Ferrari

Very Impressed

A sexy, impresive car; it is a pleasure!

Love it

Wow!

Needs Design Help

I'd Buy One Again

Best on the street...

Quattroporte 2006

The Perfect Italian Saloon

You will LOVE the Quattroporte!

Love my Mazzio

poorly manufactured

My second Q-porte as a daily driver

Horrible quality

Drive it right and it will treat you well

Fun and Fast

I love this car!! It just draws you in...

Better than my Ferrari 360

Sport GTs Rock!

Six figures on my QP's odometer

Zippy

Great car

Better than expected

Amazizizing

Bravissimo! Bella! Bella!

A true Motorhead's car!

Disappointed

absolutely suprising!!!

A real review.

Greatest Car

if youre tall

Best in CLASS

Great car will buy again

Trouble Free

Great ride

Bucket list car

What A Vehicle

The best new car purchase I've ever made!

Worst Car I have ever owned

S550 coupe

prohibitive price premium for prestige

you get what you pay for

Great car

Complete disapointment

Almost exceptional

lots of problems

Comfort and luxury

jays bullett

The Epitome Of Understated Luxury

Perfect (so far) S550 4matic

Second S Class - 4th MBZ

Our 3rd S Class

Excellent Through 1,000 Miles

The Neo-Classic Benz

Elegant Confidence

Love what you drive...and I love the S550

Overpriced peice of junk, should of bought the BMW

The Essence of Bland Styling

flagship with great mileage

Exellent vehicle

Best Mercedes yet

It does not get any better than this!

Very quiet automoblle

Rough start to a great ride

Excellent ride incredible mpg

Serenity Now

Awesome Car!!!

I Love my S550!

Terriffic road car

Retired

Don't forget about the oil !!

Bar None

Not the Legendary Reliability of Yester Years

Best all around luxury vehicle out there

Like a million bucks

Mercedes S Class Review

Big and Best

3rd mercedes i owned

Amazing Feeling

How Good Can It Get

MY 2011 550 S CLASS 4 MATIC

2011 S63 AMG

Best S-Class Yet

2011 MB S63

a Benz with personality

Great car - real value as a CPO

Last German Car...

be careful with this choice

100% Love my S63

The best!

Second S550 ... first 4matic

Best S series yet

Review By Owner

Ownership

Great Vehicle

Suspension noises

One sweet ride

Rumbling gas guzzler

The best car I have  ever owned

The Paradigm of Luxury

Truly the Best

This car has everything

Super Sedan

Lasting luxury

Almost Perfect Sedan

Front Differential Seize Up

2008 S550 4matic with Distronic plus

The S63 is the best combination of comfort and speed in one machine

Good Car, Not Thrilled, But Good Car

MB Quality is Back

My model has destronix and parktronics

MY CAB

Got what I paid for

Great Car!!

As good as always

First MB

Greatest Value in Luxury

Never Again

Not a happy owner

A little DIY makes this a fantastic deal

Love it

Maxima was better!

World's Fastest Production Sedan & Most Versitle

Smokes the competition

Best sedan in the class

S500 What a Great Car, an "A" grade

Best Car for the Money

Simply Awesome!

How can they build at this level?

2005 Mercedes-Benz S500 4MATIC

best ever riden in

Best Car I've Ever Driven

The Best of European Luxury

Mark's S430

2005 Mercedes S55

King of the road

Serious Speed in a Sedan

S55 AMG

S55 AMG

My S500

S-500 Solid, Reliable, Fun to Drive

The Ultimate Luxury Sedan

Rocket Ship for 5 Please!

if you got it spend it

Excellent 

Best Riding Car I have ever owned

Cool but unreliable ride

A Great Car

High Cost of Maintenance - Great Car! 

Nightmare

Fun when it works

Great luxury and safety

Horrible Mercedes

Tires, brakes and dash 

Great car

Great Car... Best I've Owned

I love this car!  Got it used at great price!

Rolled The Dice - Bought High Mileage

Everyone should own one

Fantastic car ruined...

2004 S600 Bi-Turbo

Appreciating Depreciation

Hot Car but not a BMW

Remarkable Flagship!

Steering wobble but great car

The Best

My First S-Class

Lovin it.

Poor workmanship & Dealer service

Great while working

Things to change

The car that sells itself

DON'T BUY THIS PIECE OF JUNK

2007 S 550 Special Order Delivered Nov 06

Outplays Bentley and BMW

Issues with Suspension

Favorite car I own

My 3rd S-Class, with Lexus as Backup Car

transmission problem

Best Car I have ever owned!

Great car

Best engineered car in the world!

What a car

Like a beautiful, high maintainence woman

My FIRST MB... and S-class in particular.

pleasure to review S550

!!!

Beauty and power

Best of the best

The Black Panther

The 2.7 (aka base) Cayman

Porsche Cayman

Porsche... there is no substitute.

A ride in the theme park

My Cayman

It just felt right

30K Plus review

Great Car, but Overpriced

Phenomenal Car

Excellent Car

Love it, Hate it

DON'T BUY RAM TRUCKS!!!

I Love My New Ram!

2011 Dodge Larimie

ECO Mode is terrible but great ride.

Amazing new direction!!! 

Why drive a car?

greatest car.

Is this really an SUV?

Turn Heads!

Almost 6 years.

Most comfortable, economical truck ever

Engine Failure @ 16000 

Excellent Truck!

So far so good!

Well, Nicely done!

as promised ...

I can't imagine a better choice

Can't stop driving it

God's best gift to man

Get the hemi, get the crew get the RAM

Ram Hemi Express 1500

great preformance  low gas milage

2012 Was the Best Year!

Happy 2012 4X4 Laramie 1500 Owner

Super SUV

Best SUV

Cayenne

Customer Service is not top priority

SUV Sports Car

Cayenne Titanium  Black

no baloney

My Second Cayenne

Truly a Porsche!

A Great SUV

Fix the tranny

Cayenne Rocks!

Best car I have ever owned

Very Fun Car

Porsche has paint issues!

1992 Porsche 911 Carrera 2

It's a blast

C4 in the Mountains, AWD Rules in the Snow!!!

The Most Fun Car I have Ever Driven

Efficient machine

almost perfect

A style all its own!

my 911

True driver's car

True Sports Car

Targa rocks!

RS America Owner Of 10+ Years

A zealots view

not only snob appeal

Love the Boxster

7 year old Boxster

Boxster

fell apart

A car for a lifetime

Dream Car

Hold on tight

Most underrated 911, Don't believe it !

Owners Review

Fun Stuff!!

C4 widebody - Solid as a rock!

guards red

Love my porsche!!!

driver

A Genuine Driver's Car

porsche america roadster

My Third Porsche

Sure to be Vintage

Love This Car

I love my Boxster

97 Boxster

Manage your expectations

FUN CAR

Great Roadster by Porsche

Great Car that's Fun to Drive

Fun, When It Runs

Fun to Drive

Boxster 1997

One of the funnest cars at any price

Great overall car with minor flaws

one FINE car!

98 Boxster

Porsche bliss

Porsche-YES Mercedes-NO

2008 cayenne gts

Great Car

Cayenne GTS - An Absolute Gem

Solid

Wondering if I made the right decision

Buying it is the cheap part

All-Around Performer

Water Leaks

Porsche - There Is No Substitute

Great SUV with ONE major flaw...

First Impression (1,000 miles)

Good value

Superiority Over All

Wow!

A Rocket

2008 model is so much better

Fast

AWESOME!!!

Porsche Cayenne!

More than I expected in a SUV

Better than I had anticipated Reliability

This Car Rocks!

A Big Surprise

Cayenne S

second time around

My Little Euro Head Turner

Love this car!!

A pleasure to drive (6 Cyl)

The Beast

Best Car I've Had

Prefer Cayenne to X5 or ML

Porche Cayenne-Great vehicle

Porsche, mispronounced & misunderstood

DONT BUY

The Ultimate SUV

Road Warrior

Ultimate Sport "Utility" Vehicle

The good and the misleading

Rescued from the Soccer Mom's SUV

Not for everyone

What a ride to hot spring....

I hope you like spending $.

04 Cayenne

The Great SUV

WOW!!!

Entertainment and transportation

Cayenne S

Great Everyday Driver

Pain in the ......

Satisfied

Maintenance money pit!

The Funnest Car I have ever owned

My Turbo Blows!!!!!!!!!

They fooled me once

Cayenne stinks

Worst ride I ever had

Amazing value, amazing car

Great Vehicle

Love This Vehicle!

Sports car-like handling in 5k lb truck!

WOW!

Porsche? Never again

Wonderful CS

Tire Eater

Loved this car for 4 years and then...

2005 Porsche Cayenne 6 Cyl. Review

Great performance, poor reliability

Really

Turbo or nothing

LOVE THE TURBO & EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS SUV!

Fun SUV, but lots of bugs

What else can go wrong

04 TURBO owner here!

Boxster S Replacement-Almost as Much Fun

NIGHTMARE S

great bang for the buck!

My one year of ownership review

Porsche Cayenne S

2004 Cayenne S

I tried the Chevy, came running back to the Hemi

Ram Limited 4x4

So far so good

More of a muscle car with a bed

Like it but...

The Ram Express is a winner!

2012 ram 1500 4x4 laramie

Cross-Shopped with Ford, Loved the Ram

2012 Big Horn 1500

2012 Ram 1500 Outdoorsman 4.7L

Best truck I've ever owned.

2012 ram express

Tradesman Quadcab 4WD 4.7L("Semi-Hemi")

No comparison!

Best Truck on the market.

Great to drive

First Dodge

Drive this truck thoroughly before purchasing

2011 dodge ram

Great truck

After 3 years, still a good truck, but a few flaws

My experience is different than most

75k and going

will drive it till one of us concedes

Luv my new ride

THIS TRUCK IS EVERYTHING YOU WANT.

RAM TOUGH

2011 Ram 2500 6.7 diesel

2011 2500 "Diesel" ST LWB

Maintenance Costs Astronomical 

Great Heavy Duty Truck

Best car I have driven

Just Picked One Up...

Who Needs the "S"?

Best Car I've Ever Owned

Class Act

Weekend Delight

True Driver's Car

Fantastic Car!

Better Than My 2003 BMW M3

Great car

2500 ST 6.7L Diesel 4X4 Automatic (for some reason, this was not an option on the *Model list)

2500 Diesel 

Awesome Truck!  Worth checking out!   5.7L Hemi

Great Truck

Still in the shop

Adult Go-Cart

Unlike previous reviewer, I'm a real Porsche owner

2016 Cayman is a real pleaser!

Downsized on Retirement

981 CAYMAN SEAT SQUEAKS

A sad buy

Instant Air-Cooled Classic

Got Speed

1996 Porsche Carrera-Great Car

1996 Porsche 911 Twin Turbo

Porsche Turbo 1996

Pure Joy

The best 911........ever!

Amazing

Best Porsche Ever

Best Sports Car

Love it!

1995 Porsche C2 CAB

My 1995 911 C4

Fantastic Car

Nirvana

No Worries Performance

911 Turbo rocks

Wow

Love at First Sight, Every Time ...

I grin every time I drive this car!!!!

My awd 95 cabrio

Porsche got it right w/ the 993

Great for a change on the fly!

911 Turbo

A Dog with Fleas

2002 C2 Cab - 4th 911

An unexpected Pleasure

Low ratio Quality/Cost

The best sports car ever

None better

It's a chunk of change... But worth it!

Should of saved my money and gotten an M3

Sweet

Love my Porsche 911

tall Steve

Turbo Cab 2008

Awesome Vehicle!

Awesome Targa!!

Porsche - is it worth the money

996 tt x50

Broken Down

Nothing short of amazing

Like a Space Ship

The Best 997 Yet

Porsche S4 Cab is an Awesome Ride 

Great Experience

Still Tops in Anybody's Book

How much for one that works

Lives Up To The Dream Of  A 10-year-old

Well, it's my 4th one.....

my baby

Worst exotic imitation ever!

The Real Deal

Porsche 2006 911S

The Best Car Ever

Club Coupe is a Winner

A Rocket on Steroids

2006 Carrera Cabriolet

Porsche Carrerra

All the Porsche you need

Porsche. There is no Substitute.

Ultimate convertible

996 C4S

The best got better

So fun for looks and speed

Stunning C4S

2004 Porsche Turbo Cabriolet

Scream machine

Drove It for Fun...and Bought It

Porsche Twin Turbo

911 Cab - Highly overrated

My 60th Birthday gift to myself.

3 in 1:Turbo

Rare and True Performance

911 is King

Perfect Car

911 TURBO

Best car in spite of what so called purists say

40th Anniversary 911

First Porsche

2004 911 GT3

Forever Porsche

Wow

Favorite sports car!

Better than any other supercar.

The best car ever made

911 Turbo 

09 C2 Cab (6 spd)

Silky smooth!

A 911 is the ultimate for purists

Great car

Amazing!

Just fun to drive

Dream Car meets expectations

Fun car to drive, but it's improvable!

own

My New 2012-- 911 Carrerra S PDK  Coupe

911 coupe s (991 version with PDK)

Porsche 991  911S

911 Targa 4S

2012 911 Targa 4S

Great ride, poor quality and reliability

Adrenaline?

Even better than what you imagine

Smilin' and Drivin'

The best car

997 GTS Cabriolet is AWESOME!

What a Car!

Fun, Sexy, fun-to-drive, overpriced

911 S Review

911 S way to go

1st but not last!

I want to leave a 10 review but... 

Awesome

2009 911 S COnvertible

coming home

Great  Car

2008 C4S

Brilliant

Best one Yet

Carrera 2s

Rocketship

Even a base Carrera rocks!!

Porsche 997 series 1 

2007 Porsche 911 Turbo

Exceeding Expectations

C4S over Turbo

Fantastic everyday car

997S break in

bye bye BMW

This car is awesome

Should have got the Turbo first!

911 Turbo fills the Bill

The funnest car to drive

08 C4S Cab

08 turbo cab tiptronic

Glad I bought one!

Look at that S car go!

A Car to Drive to the Track

New to the Porsche Family

Best Car On The Planet

Convertible Fun

911 S Noise

It doesn't get any better!

Fantastic

World's Best Sports Car, Red C4S Cabrio

Pure Adrenaline

They get better every year...

2003 911

2003 911 Carrera Cabriolet

2003 911 Cab. review

996 Cab So Good !

03 Carrera White 

responsiveness: an extension of self

carrera coupe 

03 911 T

The true ultimate driving machince

MY SUNDAY DRIVER

Go Baby Go!

The Every-Day Super Car

Continuing Pleasure

arctic silver

Childhood Dream

2005 C4S

A True Driver's Car

Awesome!

Daily Driver or Dream Car?

Outstanding

Owner

Finally got one

Porsche 997 is Hands Down Better than 996

Porsche 911 Turbo S Cabriolet

The most satisfying car to own

Fast and Beautiful - Best of it's year!

Best of all

No Garage Queen Here

Amazing!

What a car

A decade of Porsches are lemons

My car

Performance to die for, quality to wish 

911 Porsche delivers!

Midlife Crisis

The True Driver's Car!

Daily Driver

Little Fast Tank

A tremendous sports car for the money

2002 996 Cab

Best car I  have ever owned and driven

1997 Targa -third week imperssions

Transmission woes...

Amazing!!!!

Nearly perfect

Living the Dream

Street Legal Race Car

I love this car

If you like raw speed and handling

2005 Porsche Carerra 

AWESOME

911

2001 996 Carrera Coupe

It's a Porsche.....what more to say???

Get the Six Speed with 18's

If you can afford it, get one

Can be daily driver but I wouldn't.

German Supermodel

Reliable, fun daily commuter car

What a driving machine!

Dependable Daily Driver - That's Sexy 

I'm in heaven!

Exotic and Drivability!

Great Car, Fun to Drive, Head-Turner

accept no subtitute!!!

Camry reliability/Ferrari performance

A modern classic

Fantastic

400 hp of fun!

997 TT S

Where do I go from here?

1999 C4 Cabriolet

My  Search Ended With This Car

It is a sweet machine

Get this car, save stacks of cash and look great 2

Best Car I have ever owned

Male Menopause Black on Black  Self Gift

There is a reason this is such an automotive Icon!

Just a solid sportscar

Classic no fault automobile

Carrera 2

1999 911C2 Cab

'99 Carrera 4 

Loads of Fun, Very Little Downside

996 Porsche Rocks

1999 Carrera

Be careful, the engines are not reliable

Love This Car

XTC on Wheels!

Wow, what a fun car!

The last of the REAL Porsches

I love this car

Last of the 'air cooleds'

Best Porsche I ever owned, before my newer one.

No substitute!

Nothing better

Great Car!!!

Unbelievable

There really is no other

The Porsche 993 (the 911s from 1995 to 1998) Rock!

The Reliable Alternative To Ferrari 328

Lasting Contemporary Design

One of the Best Porsches ever made

A W E S O M E 

THE BEST

supper fun car, but.......

More Power Please

Fun To Drive, When its not leaking

It just doesn't get any better.

Best of the Porsches

a great weekend car

Uber Car

My C4S

Speed Yellow

Porsche 4S

993 value should increase

Gotta Get It

Born to Run

How to wipe that smile off?

Original and Still Happy Owner

Ulitmate Beast

What a treat!

Get a leak down test!

If you can Afford One, Buy It

It's a blast!

Not just a toy

1st Porshe

Love this car!!!

2000 Porsche 911 Millennium Edition

Cab Review

Pure sports car

2000 911 Cabrio

Pure exitment

Awesome Car

Best 911 model hnds down

1996 Carrera 2 Coupe

Finest car EVER

C4S, the Turbo without the 400 HP engine

911 Carrera Base Model/Not worth it/Go elsewhere!

It's a street-able race car, not a Bentley

What a superb car!

991 buyer beware

The Spirit lives

My Get Away Car

Great Fun Car

That's my car!

A fun, fun, fun experience!  Get one! 

My Boxster has no substitute

almost flawless

Boxster

Best True Sports Car For the Money

99' Boxster 

Fun car to drive

2013 911 S Cabriolet is TWO cars in ONE!

Best car I ever owned

It's A Porsche...Enough Said.

1999 Porsche Boxster

Its A Nice Car, A Really Nice Car

Nothing Better

Love at First Sight

Uber Shweet

1999 986 Porsche Boxster

If you want a smooth and quiet ride...

'99 Boxster is excellent 2nd owner car!

I Love it!

Great car

Finally

there is no substitute!

Great car !!!

S-Box

Good Car

Boxster

SSSSSuper

Awesome

An Excellent Sports Car

There is no substitute!

One of My Best Cars

One of the world's best sports cars

Boxster 2.7

Best buy Porsche

2000 Boxster S

Our first anniversary gift to ourselves

Every Day Fun in the Sun

Fun, Fun, Fun

Pure Driving Fun

A Purebred Sportscar

concern owner

WOW

Happy 65th

Porsche out did themselves

It makes me smile

Porsche thinks out of the Box..thank you

McNate's Opinion

my 99 porsche boxter-Live Your Dreams!

I love this car!

the best

Ignition switch replacement

My Cherry Red Boxster

A diamond in the rough

Engine Needing Replacing

Great Car!!

Best Car Ever

There is no better

best of the sports convertibles

Xlnt sports convertible

Raucous Fun in the Sun

You gotta love it

A Future Classic

My Boxster

The Review

Fun, but costly...

This car can't miss....

Mid-life love

As good as it gets

Best sports car for a value

Stunning looks, immensely fun, practical

Caution! It's a 12 Year-old Sports Car

Amazing car to drive

I Love My 2004 Boxster!

Boxster

Definition of a sports car...

First Porsche

I love this car

to nice

A great ride

No regrets on 2003 S

Easy to drive quickly

Think Again!

Tiptronic S

Awesome Car!

Turning Heads

Mechantical Marvel

It only gets better

Hard to beat!

the best roadster out there

The Most Fun Car I Have Ever Owned

Great Car.

No regrets - Love my Boxster

Amazing Car

2001 Boxster S M030 Suspension - Curvy road Fun

You get what you pay for....

Boxster S...There is no substitute

Incredible car

can't be compared to any other car

There  is no substitute!!

Great Car!

oil and coolant mixing

A Geriatric Buys A Boxter S

Weeeeeeeeeee!

M96 engine class cars

It's all fun and games until *SNAP

Entry level Porsche

It's a porsche - enough said.

nice boxster s

Worst car I ever owned!

Buy this car!

Poor Reliability of the Boxster "S"

A Blast!

So much fun...

Proud Owner 

Bucket List Car!

Excellence in Motion

No Regrets

Fun Machine

Never again

It's hard to do better.

defective transmission

What a daily driver!

Oh yea!

Purrrfect porsche

So awesome we bought two.

Feels Like an Audi S4 But Looks Better

Targa is back and in GTS form

A dream to drive

991.2=991*100!

The BEST car

great fun

"You're Hooked after the 1st test drive"

I made the move to a 911 Turbo

911 base

My Boxster S

A car that puts a smile on my face

Inexpensive super car

Great Handling Piece Of German Engineering-2007

A Great Little Car

Fun to drive when not in the shop

Great car, but problems

Performance, no customer brand immersion

Best Upgrade from 986

Happy owner

Hits the "Sweet Spot."

A REAL Sports Car

One Awesome Ride!

Real upgrade over the 987

2013 Boxster S 

feel like a kid again

this car loves oil

Nice improvement

Better than a car!

2011 Cayenne V6 Manual

Great sporty SUV!

Confused SUV

Rocket Sofa

Excellent Redesign

Amazing Improvement

Great SUV

Surprising 

I HAVE MY PORSCHE!!!

Devil in disguise

Major Electonics problems

A GT3 SUV

GTS "The Best Cayenne" version

Power for the family

My best yet!

Cayenne GTS manual

Great automobile, lousy customer support

Sleek, ultra comfort and a nasty growl

Turbo me to Planet Turbo!

first impressions of v6 cayenne

3 months in.

2012 Cayenne Turbo

Fun to Drive...!

85K and no voice control on phone

No possible not to love this vehicle!

One of the best

Great  truck

Great Handling, Great Mileage, Obsolete Navigation, Insufficient PDLS range

An SUV that thinks it's a sports car...

DieselNice but...

2014 Porsche Cayenne

Fast, responsive luxury - awkward Navigation...

Very Disappointed

Cayenne Diesel Delivers

Diesel Diva

Love it

An honest review

A wonderful true sports car

Not your average roadster.

Excellence all around

Best Sports Car on the Planet!

2013 Boxster S

2013 Boxster S blue/blue roof/grey

One of the bettter Porsches of all time. 

I Smile Like a Kid When I Drive My Boxster S

Step on the gas, wipe that tear away!

Looks and feels like a million bucks.

Finally

The BEST car I have ever owned, bar none!

Boston Driver

Rock solid dependable awesome fun!

Fun to drive, exhilaration, hesitation

Perfect Sports Car

What a Driving Experience!

Great car!

rides on rails

1st time Porsche owner

A Drivers Car !!

2007 Boxster 

This car ROCKS!!

It's not what I wanted but ... I can't help liking it!

The perfect roadster.

Great Experience

Along came a Spyder

For the money, maybe the best Porsche ever!

Catastrophic Engine Failure

Great Buy

Love it, but

The Best All Around Sports Car, Period!

First Timer

987 vs 986

Boxter S - 2005

Excellent Upgrades to a Sweet Ride

A Great Car Just Got A Lot Better

2005 Porsche Boxster

Engine failure/balance shaft broke apart

Awesome/Affordable Sportscar

A Sure Cure for the Commuter Doldrums

2005 boxter s (bought used with 5700 mi)

Over 100k and still a fantastic drive!

Do not Test Drive this Car

The best sports car on the planet

Love this car!

Amazing Car

Boxster S

Don't drive one(unless you're ready to buy)

Stellar.  Wow.  Great only car for 2.

Go get one

Any Porsche = Great Sports Car

The best roadster in it's class

Fun to Drive

Perfection

My second Boxster

perfection?

My 2nd Boxster and I still love it. 

Bought a 2008 Base Boxster.....great car! `

A little slice of heaven

Infamous IMS failure.

Porsche Bostwer Review

a great drive

Boxster review

Unbeatable value and performance for a used car

Like driving a High Tech Video Game

If you can afford one, buy one

Too much fun

2500 miles of joy

Outstanding vehicle.

After One Full Year of Driving

Tight and Nimble

Highly Recommended!

Not a "Pretender" Sports Car...

The Only True Sports Car

987S Absolutely Rocks!

A Tip Of The Hat To Porsche's Engineers

Sweet Car

Guaranteed Fun!  Does Not Disappoint!

All New Boxster

Fun, fun, fun, fun..........

Boxster Fun

New one

Best combination of handling and speed

Different Porsche

There is no subsitute

The 'Wow' Factor

One test drive

One Beautiful Sports Car

Yeow

First impressions

Exceeding my Expectations, Former BMW Guy

All round Porsche

Too little, for too much

What a Sports Car

Love my Birthday Gift!

Ecodiesel only way to go!!!

Great Truck for "Harry Homeowner"

The Ram has come a long way.

Beats my F-150 Ecoboost any day of the week!

Love my Ram pickup!

Over 10,000 miles.  Ram Rebel 5.7

Best truck ever

love my ram

Ram 1500

2015 Ram Bighorn Ecodiesel Review

5.7 Hemi VS 3.6 Pentastar (I've owned both)

Quality control, paging quality control!

2017 Ram 1500 Crew Cab 4x4 V-6

Very Nice

Great customer service

Grimmlin in my Truck

Awesome truck!!

Love our new Truck!

First truck owned, very happy with the change

Poor Quality

See Guss at Dick hannah

Run away far and fast!

I'm shocked!

Very happy but cutious

Happy Ram Owner

Second Ram 1500 ... very pleased with the brand!

Hard To Beat

great truck with a few twists

Exceeds My Expectations

Still early, but "Wow."  Bye-Bye F150 !

Great truck, comfortable, well made

no more chevy's after driving this

EcoDiesel is the "Real Deal"

Ram 1500 3.6L V6 10,000 Mile Review

Excellent Truck

Awesome pick up

Made the switch

Transmission Leaking Day 1

2014 Ram Hauler

RAM 2014 ECODiesel Pickup Longhorn Version in 4WD

Best looking pickup out there (IMHO)

Awesome experience!!

No more lower back pain...

Totally Unreliable

Ram 1500 4x4 Sport

My 08' Cayman S ownership experience

My Cayman S experience

True sports car 

Cayman

Perfectly balanced

Great Car, One Small Problem

Turn the radio off

A Little Bummed

Absolute blast and practical

Love It!

Base 2014 Cayman

Superb vehicle

Remarkable car...

What more do you need!

Cayman S - Mid Engine beauty

OMG  Mega!!

Base PDK is the daily driver king

2010 Cayman S vs. 2014 Cayman S

Can I see my engine please

I've made it

2008 Cayman

One of the best

Ultimate Design Sports Car

Awesome

Worth every penny

I've ruined all other cars for myself...

Best Car I have ever owned

There are cars and then there is a Cayman

The Perfect Car

watch out for pricing

Smooth, Refined, Classy

A Proud Owners Comments

2015 Cayenne S

yes, it is a sports car in an SUV body

DONT BUY GET RANGE ROVER!!!

New Truck Just Quit

Unimpressed

Love My Hemi

Best truck for the money

Ray's Review

The 8 speed makes this truck, along with the Interior.....

2013 Laramie Longhorn

Very Poor Electrical systems

2013 Dodge Ram 1500 Express 4x4 Quad w/ Hemi

Love My Ram

This is a luxury truck, not a job site truck

Worth the wait!

Beware

The best and worst

My First Dodge

Performance Uber Alles

Fun Car, But Not a Daily Driver

goodbye bmw

95% 911... 70% THE COST

Cayman S PDK & Sports Chrono

Nothing even comes close

Wow--the best

Cayman S 19 inch wheels

Fun, Fun, Fun

2015 Ram Rusting Chysler or Dealer will not fix.

2015 Ram 1500 Reg Cab 5.7l Hemi

2nd Ram with problems!

Eco diesel lot of problems

Nothing but problems and no help from RAM

Poor in gas mileage

So far...I really like it!

Great Truck Just A Few Issues

Engine disintegrated at 15,000 miles.

The best 1500 pickup I have ever owned

No complaints on FCA

Just got the truck of my dreams

EcoDiesel tows 217,000 miles

From Ford to Dodge (RAM)

Less happy with the truck since my last review

2016 Laramie quad cab 3.0 L Motori V6 diesel

Awesome Luxury Truck with Econo-Box Mileage

Ram 1500 Laramie 3.6L Gas V-6

Much Better Truck than my Old Tradesman

Bighorn to a Laramie

Ram big horn

Awesume Truck

2017 Ram 1500 tradesman crew cab

Gotta Love A Ram!

Internet is your best tool

Dodge Ram 1500 Crew Saved Me!

2016 Ram 1500 Big Horn Hemi

Eco Diesel is excellent.  Quiet and smooth.

Can't Change my mind

Made Big Mistake getting this P.O.S.

Virginia Beach Pentastar Laramie

great truck

Great Little Big Truck

Unbelievable Diesel half ton

Ram knocked it out the park with the 2016 Big Horn

Coco

What I wish I had known before purchasing!

comfortable, but painfully slow

great car

Best Sport/SUV combo out there!

The SUV Sports Car

Its a Porsche for a reason

Awesome Demonstration of Technology & Design

Wish it was better

Pissed by this car

Great Surprise

Beware...no spare!

P A

overpriced under performer

OMG What were they thinking?

engine light keeps turning on

Great Truck so far

Acceptable Oil Consuption

Ram tough

A piece of crap= POS

Former Ford fanboy says...  WELL DONE RAM!

2016 Ram Mega Cab Diesel

Were all the reviews written by real owners/

Transmission Failure

2016 RAM 2500 6.4 HEMI

Goodbye, Ford...

RAM 2500 a Grand Slam

Tranny went out at 5300 miles

Tranny sha and shudder

It's so RAM GOOD!

Great truck.

Luxury car on steriods

Back up camara

nothing but awesome

Areal workhorse

Upgraded from a Tundra

Luxury in a Limited

6.7 Ram 2500 Laramie with Black Appearance Package

Great Truck!!!!!

MY 2016 RAM LARAMIE IS AWESOME!!!

drive shaft fell out at 3000 miles

Help

Holding up to everything

2014 2500 6.4l

Very Pleased Overall

Great engine rest poor quality

Tradesman 2500

Ram sucks for work trucks!

JUNK & RECALLS GALORE

2013 RAM 3500 a poor choice.

Love it!

Pretty darn nice

2012 Ram 3500 Mega cab

2012 Ram 3500 Laramie Crew Cab 6 spd Auto

Ball Joints Bad

Big tie rod Ram buyback joke !

Great truck, bad design flaw

Get a chev or ford

The Federal Government had no clue with mandates

Awesome Truck

Update

Buyer beware

2016 3500 Ram Longhorn

2015 RAM Cummins, Great Truck, Always Room For Improvement Though

Powerful beast with more than one Achilles heel!

Edmunds Needs To List ALL Models

2015 Ram 2500 Big Horn 2500 4x4

2500 Longhorn Diesel 2015

Totally engaging

2017 Cayman 2.7L / 6 Speed

Worst Decision I've Ever Made.

10K miles 2500 4x4 Ram/Cummins DIESEL

Ram 2500 Diesel

Big Red

Frickin great truck

Poor Towing capabilities-5th wheel

Broke from day 1

Good for a while

Excellent Truck!

The car is fantastic! Dealer support terrible.

Haven't lost yet!

A Beast

Quattroporte 2014 

Cheap, not inexpensive - Could this be the "throwaway car" of our generation?

It's a subpar car and Nissan is a total nightmare

Where's all gauges?

I love this spunky little car!

Great Gas Milage

Note worthy Versa SV

Wondeful Gas Saver!

My gray little dumb car  i love it !!!!!!

not too shabby, pros and cons

perfect for munchkins and others

Extremely disappointed

Wow!

I'd rather chew glass then buy another Rogue

Rogue for a rogue

WORST CAR EVER!

Update on 2008 Rogue - BAD!!!!!

My Baby SUV

Burned by the CVT

Rogue Rocks!

Nice, but other better options

CVT failed for us too!  Never buy Nissan!

Did Not Last

Good Commuter for the money

DO NOT BUY A NISSAN

Great Deal, just needs some updates

Join Me in A Recall Campaign

JUNK

Failed, sad to give it up!

last review traded it in

nice crossover if you do not need real SUV

beautiful gas guzzler

Can't drive very well over 65 mph

Murano, Transmitions are ok dont worry, 

If you're thinking of buying one.. DONT!

Nissan & Transmissions

A JEWEL OF AN SUV

Will definitely buy another

I Love my Murano

Nice Car, BUT...........................

Best Urban SUV

A great car for over 14 yrs!

Best car I've ever owned - and stylish

LOVE IT

The next best thing to a Skyline :)

Great engine!

No Stopping It!

maximum maxima

Best car I've owned!

This car is a keeper

89 Max

RELIABILITY AND SOLID WORKMANSHIP

Love my SE

Fits me just fine

for a 13 yr old car? im very happy

Absolutely Loved this car!

Best car I ever bought

Great car

Good Car

Still in love

Thoughts on a first car

Amazing vehicle front to back

love it

Nissan leaf built on a Friday

So far, so good!

Initial Purchase

Great little car

Nissan Leaf

50,000 Miles Best Racing Commuter ever

The best car we've owned!

Still great after 11 months

Passing Gas Stations!

Excellent first electric vehicle

Apotheosis of perfection!

Great Car!

Commuter

Love my Cayenne red Leaf

<50% battery capacity at 90,000 mi & more issues

Experience after 2 months

Car of the Future

Hard to work with Nissan support.

A Connecticut Leaf Owner Speaks

Money Saving Tips

High Price, all-electric

7,000 miles in, I would buy another

The problem is NISSAN, not the car!

Okay, but I'll never own another one

Yup- LA traffic and I bought a manual!

Just got my Juke

Sport Cross delivers Fun and Excitement in a unique package

Love/Hate Relationship With This Car

Some factors owners never mention - parking

Awesome car!  

Great Little Car!

We. Brought. It. For. My. Wife.  She. Loves. It

Bought Juke 20165 w 19K miles for great price from

Digging out the snow

Love the 2013 Nissan Juke!

2013 Juke full of sludge/metal in oil pan

Excellent value for your buck

Peppy and Fun

Super sporty.

6 Speed is The Way to Go

So much fun

Awesome car, but don't expect Nissan to have parts

Fun with Compromises

Chose Juke over BMW Mini Cooper Clubman

NISMO WINS !!

It's the little things

great little froggy!

fun to drive, just don't watch the gas guage

Fun car

just got it!

So far, so good.  Wanted something SMALL

Luxury car for great price.

The JUKE is fun, sporty, great gas mileage!

I LOVE MY JUKE!

My Juke

Luve our new Juke

Turbo concerns

Love this car

fun to drive, just don't watch the gas guage

Nissan compensation

Juke Box Rocks!

Love/hate relationship developing

Engine problems

nothing make

Bionic Frog

Finally not a cookie-cutter body type

Engine Dies After 68,000 miles / 2 years & 3 months

"Worst new car of the year"

An Honest review

Got Juked on MPG RATINGS

Good Bionic frog 2011

My favorite car ever!

Fun to Drive and Affordable

We bought this new

Love this car.

Turning over a new Leaf!

Welcome to the 21st Century!

Smooth As Silk

Owning a Leaf +4 days

Just Buy It!

A history making car!

No battery capacity warranty leaves owners with worthless cars

Love this car, but man it cost me.

Magic Carpet ride

After over a year of ownership

Fun little utility car with great value

It Grows On You

Awesome

2012 Juke airbag failure

Did I get "Juked" ???

Outstanding So Far

Nissan Leaf & Blink Charging Station

Well built, loved the quiet

LEAF exceeds our expectations!

Good so far.

Great work van

Nissan Dealers Will Not Service their own product

I wished I purchased one sooner!

Very little dealership

Best SUV Ever

BEWARE: 2003 Murano Tranny is a Lemon!

Decent car with bad build quality

Best buy ever

TERRIBLE RELIABILITY!! DO NOT PURCHASE MURANOS!!

Do not buy this car!!

Do Not Buy This Car!!!

Scary start  of owning a new car

bought a used one

Not Happy

Lurching/Acceleration Delay

Renault is tarnishing Nissan's reliability

'03 SL AWD 142,000+ mi

CVT Transmission/Transfercase/Gaspump

2003 Murano SE Excellent, Comfortable and Reliable

Great Small Family CrossOver SUV

Excellent family car and fun to drive

3000 miles and still luv it

SUV Value at its best

Poor AC

CVT transmission problems

BAD TRANSMISSIONS

Bad Transmissions - Terrible customer service

HeLLOOOOO Nissan- Can you hear us?

OMG What have I done!

Transmission problems 

CVT Transmission

Considering a Rogue?

CVT transmission issues

Fuel effecient All Wheel Drive crossover

It grows on you

Dont buy a CVT Nissan

nicely nissan

Watch Out from Behind

Great Car!and a must own for any looking in this class!

82000 Miles of frustration

Make the "wobbling" stop!!!!

AWD Performance Poor

not a good car

Excellent Choice

Rogue Scholar

Rogue can compete with RAV and CRV

GREAT VALUE SUV

09 rogue sl awd

My Fixes

A Note-Worthy Surprise

Sub-compact that thinks it's a Corolla!

It's not a car--it's a friend.

Have had major problem

Love it except

still happy  buyer

The Note sings

Note-Worthy update

Surprisingly good

Respectable, Friendly, Fun Car, Great Value

nissan rogue failure

Great little SUV

So far, So good!

2009 Rogue SL

BUY A ROGUE!

Great little car

surprisingly good

I like my 2014 Nissan Versa Note 5 Speed

retirement car

Great !

Awesome

Great first car

Excellent Car for all around town driving at 40mpg avg

Easy, cute and reliable!

Sound economical choice

the mobile command center

Hits All The Right Notes

My Mini-SUV

Underpowered?

2014 27,000 Miles no issues  simple and functional

I love my Versa Note

Bought it as a commuter. Exactly what it is.

CVT transmission failure

Versa Nightmare

Zoom Zoom

Perfect car

Nissan missed the boat on this one

New Rogue Sport 2017

Amazing for the price!

Sooooooooooooo fun to drive; great gass mileage

Nice Car , still need more time to evaluate

Great looking vehicle but lots of cabin noise

More compliments than on my Caddy

Tammie H

2015 Nissan Rogue a Solid SUV option

backup camera

shakes rattle and road noise

Love my new Juke but...

Nice Car, I love it.

Loving my Juke

buyer's remorse

Go big or stay home.

RIPPED OFF BY NISSAN

Zippy Jiffy Jukie

Just Not That Impressed!

Just bought our Second Juke

One Happy Juke Grandma!

A drivers car !

What a wonderful car

Juke box review

Harsh Ride!

Satisfied

Big attitude in a small package.

2015 Juke Nismo (Silver)

My second Juke.

Juke

Love it

SNOW NO PROBLEM!!!!

My 2015 Juke SV

Git up and gooo!

Juke NISMO RS, What Fun

Love my JUKE!

Excellent Commute Car - But Not for Everyone

2013 SV Leaf Review

Great car. Driving the future. 

License to Thrill

3 year old Nissan Leafs are a bargain

100 percent satisfied

2013 LEAF

Makes me enjoy driving!

Like riding on a silent magic carpet

Loving it! It handles like a sports car.

Save money YYYY

Reliable and low ownership costs

WOW, this is like a dream.

GREAT CAR

Leaf saved my life

commuter car

It's a jewel for its price!

electric car

best car ever

Excellent!

Love my Leaf

Surprised it's So Nice

Never Going Back to Gas

READ ME BEFORE YOU BUY THIS CAR!!

Zippy, fun car!

Very Pleased

Two Years -- No Gas

Amazing city car

Not for cold climes or if you plan on ever moving

We love this car!

We love it so far...

Best Second Car Ever

Safe bet for a used car

Going EV - Sooner the better!!

An unexpected bargain

Much improved, But

Getting used to Value!

Test drive it and you will be sold!

Falling for the Leaf

Nissan Leaf Issue - Winter

2013 SL Leaf

Go Electric !!!

Fun travel

Best car to own for commuting

2014 Nissan Juke

WORST Vehicle I Have Ever Owned

Amazing car

my 2014 Juke was DOA in 6months!

DID GREAT IN A ROLLOVER WRECK!

Family fun as long as you are single with no kids

Atomic gold Juke SL

10k mile review (Get the Convenience package!)

For Me It Is a Fleet Vehicle...

Still a Great Car!

Rogue Warrior

Mile per gallon not like Nissan stated 26/33 MPG

Love this car!

Love the car

Faster And More Fun Than The Non-Turbo

Not so beautiful beauty

lemon from the beginning

Very comfortable front seats

Fun to drive, great mileage

Easy, Reliable, and Fuel Efficient

3 years with no, no repair costs and 33 to 40 mpg

I love my little Versa!

Great for parking garage.

LemonTransmission

THE PERFECT CAR

The Ultimate Sleeper

old faithful

Good car but...

One Owner Car

300,000+ And still going........

Fantastic All Around!

as expected

Maxima GXE

Sell before 160K

Warts and Gems

One of the bad ones!!!

the consistant exhilaration

Never Had a Repair Yet

Maxine

The Poor Man's 5 Series!

A love affair with my Maxima SE

Kudos to the Max

Poor Long-TermReliability, Nice Interior

Fun, comfortable, reliable, fairly nice

Many good memories

great first car

Great daily driver.

only traded it for a supra turbo

great car

junk '95 Maxima

I Love this car. My 1st car. Had it for 4 years

Dependable, but...

I love my Maxima!

Three Year Review

2000 Nissan Maxima

Nice Ride

Coulda been great, but...

2000 Nissan Maxima

Just great 

Needs better paint

2002 nissan maxima se

dfc review

All around great car

Great Car

Over 50

Terrific Car

I really loved this car

Pay Close Attention to this review

What a great decision!!

Nissan Has Fallin Off from Being Premium

Expensive Repairs

Don't Do It

Lemon

1st non-US car owned

Reliable Car

Best car I ever owned

Most bang for the buck 

Updated Review 3 yrs & 150K miles later

Rocket Update

2001 GLE Nissan Maxima

20th Anniversary Edition Maxima

Love this car

Difference of Opinion

Fun 4-door rod

The Nissan A32 ROCKS!!

Awesome old Maxima

Maxima 95

Historic 1995 NissanMaximaQX performance

Too Bad

2nd Max probably last

Shimmy

Looks great but having issues

You're crazy if you dont buy a maxima

Do not buy this vehicle

Cool Car

Best Car I've EVER owned

2004 Nissan Maxima Elite a reliable vehicle

Lots of suspension problems, no help!!

SWEET RIDE

2004 Maxima Quality Problems

Family Hot Rod

I hate this car

Do NOT buy 04-06 Maxima.

Our Maxima has been AWESOME!

Nissan needs to be shut down

[non-permissible content removed]

Horrible!!

IM OVER IT!!!

Awful

Worse vehicle I have ever purchased...

Not so happy

Love it, BUT.......

fast fun family ride

Nissan Maxima Brakes, ABS, Floorboards, Sunroof, Nissan Corporate, Faulkner Harrisburg, Star Nissan Greensburg

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

Comfortable Drive, but problems aplenty 

My 3rd Maxima!

you will regret it I learned the hard way!

2004 Maxima transmission problems

Nissan Maxima

Ok Car

Awesome Vehicle / Bad Transmission

04 maxima SL not worth it

Great so far & a nice change from Honda

2007 Maxima SL - Denver

Mostly Satisfied

The Best Maxima

Not What I Expected.....

Transmission problems

Avoid this 2005 Maxima

Good car for Transmission Repair Shops

Only buy if it's a steal!!!

So far so good

I love the car, but.......

NEVER AGAIN NISSAN

A Second Look

They could have done a better job

Love to the Max

Cam  Crank Sensors 200K+miles 2005 Nissan Max

Nissan family

The Four-Door Sports Car

RECALL

Great Car, doesn't feel 10 years old

Great!...not near the issues others have had.

gimme some mpg

Was Perfect Until 140k miles................

Good car...a bad experience is on you

LOVE MY MAXI

Great car, some reviews not too fair

Maxima under-rated?

Grandma's sports car

shock & awe

nissan maxima 2007

Hard to beat

A Bit Disappointed

Precision Grey  Max SL

Excellent car

Nice car- Maxima SL

Rattles Ruin the Enjoyment

Great Car!

Great Car!

 4 Door Sports Car?

Excellent Highway Performance

Already traded it in 

Won't get fooled again

Best vehicle I've ever owned

13K on the clock

Wonderful but Noisy

Great speed, but oh so not worth it!!!!

Picked-up Used

Transmission Issues

Love it !

Never thought I would get stranded in a Nissan

Great Car

Fun car, HORRIBLE turn ratio!

Excellent car, excellent value!

Nissan rules

Low build quality that takes all the fun

Inherent transmission problem with '06 Maxima

I love my Nissan Maxima 2006

NEVER AGAIN

I really wanted to like this car!

Poor Making Of The Car

LOVE my Maxima

Love My Maxima

MY 20TH A.E. MAX ( Z edition )

falling apart at 80K mi

My 2001 Nissan Maxima

Hard shifting transmission.

Trouble Car to Buy

2006 Nissan Maxima Tranny Problem -- NOT TRANSMISSION

The Altima is better!!

early death of transmission

2002 Nissan Maxima SE

A Lemon in the Making

Great car, great value

Fun to Drive

Best of most worlds

RELIABLE

Parting is such sweet sorrow

Love my 2001 Maxima GLE!

Reliable at 120,000 miles

Best Car EVER

I love this Maxima

Great car - Bad Paint

If the Nissan Maxima 2003 is safe?

Great fun!

super car

The best car in America

Great Car

Never left me stranded

please consider before purchasing

Exciting family car!

Rock Solid Fun

max 6+ years 

Excellent Car

Second Maxima

150000 miles and NEVER a breakdown

Super comfortable!

Wouldn't Trade Her For Anything!

Excellent Buy

Old but strong

Great and reliable

Can't let it go...

pearly   white

2002 Maxima GLE

2002 Nissan Maxima

Sad It's Time To Let Go

One of the BEST

Fast and good looking but eats oil

2002 Black on Black SE 6M

An outstanding car

40K car for 25K

Problems, but it never left me stranded. Car changes its own oil. .

Great car thus far

Great First Car

Great Motor Wrapped in Crappy Exterior

02Maxima Rocks

Can't beat it for the money

Nice Car for the price

MY Gold 94 Max

Tank's Review

Reliable, you can't beat it!

115,000 miles and still going

Excellent Car but not good on gas

Excelent Car

A great car!

Great Car

Reliable and fun to drive but noisy

Style, Performance, Price

Early Maximas rock

Maxima love.

Really great car

Maxima - truly excellent value and fun

1994 Nissan Maxima SE 4dr Sedan

A good basic midsize sedan

Awesome car

strong caaaar for a little women

The car to run

I love Maxima's

8 Years later.

3rd Maxima Owned

applesauce

Best Car I've Owned

Fun car, but unreliable

A wonderful friend

Quality car

Dale Review

4-door sports car indeed

Poor man BMW wannabe, that was never RWD

Grand Cruiser

I Love it, I want a 2002

The best car for the money 

Best Car I have Owned

2000 Nissan Maxima poor acceleration

What's Wrong with Nissan

My wife stole my Maxima!

The Very Best

Brilliant

Well-Produced but Check engine problems(light only)

Good Performance but

One of my favorite cars

10 years of fun and reliability

Bulletproof Car

What A Great Vehicle

Discouraging 

A car in its own league

Superb car

1997 Maxima SE - Great Car!

beyond excellent

AWESOME '97 MAXIMA GLE

4DSC 

What a vehicle

Car and Driver car of the year

Best bet for family car.

1995 strong after 20 years

No one builds them like Japan

My 95 Maxima!

UPDATE TO BEST MAX EVER

The Best Max Ever

That's my baby!

Great car!

Love it!

99 Maxima GLE

Sexy Monastery

1999 Nissian Maxima GLE

mostly a great car

99 Nissan Maxima SE Limited

After 13 years and over 143k miles, it still goes strong

Nissan's Best in a reliable family sport sedan

3 year review

excellent except for ignition coils

Nice Car

Sweet Car!

Rock solid car

Great car up until

1999 nissan rocks 

Original Owner

93' Maxima GXE

review

Good Car and Fun to Drive

Can a 13 year old car still compete?

I love this car

Over 194K Miles and Still Going

'93 workhorse

1993 Maxima (+) and (-)

1993 Nissan Maxima SE

Great Car!

245,000 And Runs / Drives Like New! Amazing Car!

my first purchased car !

1999 Nissan Maxima

Man I love these cars!

Maximum Driving Fun, Minimum Reliability

Long, Loving Relationship

My Old Girl Just Keeps on Going

Miss it dearly

Eveready Bunny of -a-car!

5-MAN PORSCHE

Awesome car, that's why mine isn't for sale!

The greatest car ever!

Great Service and Fun to Drive

Great Car

Excellent Car- Great Quality

Funny car....

Fuel Injectors and Transmission

1992 nissan maxima

92 GXE still running like a champ

Excellent car!!!!

Buying another Maxie

Love this car

My Nissan

Best Bang for the Buck

Max Air

Comfortable Fun Reliable

96 Maxima still runs great

Amazing car

Maxima gives maximum bang for your buck

This is an awesome car!

Great car & Great value

great car

Great Car

91 maxima ahead of its time

OUCH.....

Sports and Luxury combine

My old 91 Maxima

Great Choice!

Love my lil black nissan!

I'd Buy It Again

great car

Long Term Reliability and Fun

A 1991 Mini-max Story...

sweet

Still Crazy After All These Years

Is it expensive to keep as a used car?

It's about that time

A fun car to own

Practical

SolidPerformer

91 maxima long term report

Great car

fun and dependable

After 14 years it still drives like new

Maximiz'in 4 ever

Sloppy workmanship

don't buy if you haven't

No bang for the buck

2009 Maxima

2 years not a problem

Great Car so far

No better deal

48000 Transmission fail update

Most things to like; some to not

A Gas Hog That is Worth It

Hands Down Best Car I've Ever Owned

Uh Huh!

This car has get up and go

Better get the 100,000 mile warranty

Bad Transmission

2010 Nissan Maxima Engine knocking 

Don't warranty to be approved.

better then the rest at that price

Nissan of Old

9 months later

Great SUV 

A Nice SUV

Integrity Of 2005 Nissan Murano is JUNK!!!

05 Murano

Brand New Murano

Nissan Murano

Guess I expected more, not a nightmare

Nissan has a few bugs.

ENGINE BLOWN AT 88,000 MILES!

Got It Right

Don't expect a quality warranty!

Overall its OK

engine light

Could be the best SUV of all

Nissan Does Not Stand Behind Their Product.

CAN YOU BE IN LOVE WITH A SUV?  CUZ I AM!

My Murano is great!

Burning oil after 96K

I would highly recommend!! 

Murano Ripoff

Love it but now getting worried

Not a Great CUV

Time bomb after 36K miles warranty expired

Not recomended

Murano - proof positive the Japs make crap too.

I am so very sworry to have to say goodbye

Murano has too many common chronic repair issues

I love this car........................

2006 Nissan Murano S 

Impressed

Most unreliable car I have ever owned

Great Style & Function

safety

Impressions after 39 Mo's

2006 Murano

HORRIBLE EXPERIENCE!!!!

Worst purchase ever !

Dream SUV

A fully competent crossover

Outstanding!!!!

Anyone own a S Model?

Thumbs up!

Do not buy one with a sunroof

Bad Seats

Take a Long Ride before Buying

Transfer case problem

Absolutely love this vehicle!

Didn't go wrong this time!

Defecitve Throttle

Great SUV

You get less for more money

Love my Murano!

willd bill

Good choice

What a surprise!!

2011 Nissan Murano SL

No More Nissans for me!

Very Safe

Nice but is slowly getting expensive to fix!!

Nice but not perfect!!

Pretty happy so far

just love it

simple reason why I hate my Murano

Great car

Super Smooth Crossover

Just got the Murano SV AWD

2011 Murano SL vs. 2009 Murano LE

Better Than Expected

Ultimate Getaway From the world

So much more refined than any competitor!

2012 SL AWD with Navigation

my nissan murano

Not what we exoected

Glad I buy this

Uncomfortable!

The best mid-size SUV/Crossover I drove

Comfortable and Elegant...

So far, we love this car!

LE Platinum Is Good But Worth $40,000?

Glad to have it!

Generally happy after 50,000 miles

My 4th Murano 2013 SL w/Nav

Comfort

Best there is

So far - so good.

45,000 Update

Good car BUT Wind Noise!!

Update at 19k from 4/20/10

SAFE SUV THANKS NISSAN

Too cool for school!

Luxury for less

Extremely bad mileage car!

Very happy with my Murano

Excellent Crossover!

LOVING my first SUV

Reliable

CVT transmissions are from the Devil

Buyer Beware

7,000 Mile Update

Six months in, all good

Great car comfortable

Very Nice upgrade.

Very Disappointed

Exct vehicle, 150k no probs, idiots cant drive

Roomy, Powerful SUV

Tough damn looking car!

Love my Murano

developing problems

Good car

VERY NICE VEHICLE -OVERALL

Meh. We are trying to get rid of it.

Not Reliable!

67,000 miles strong

Still running strong

Shifting into trouble

My disappointments

Drive train failures. CVT and Xfer case issues. Don't buy Nissan! No Manufacturer Support!

Fantastic car.

Blown head gasket at 20,000

No Mo Murano

Purchased just in time

2007 Murano our second Nissan

2007' Murano

Nice Ride - Got a great deal

2007n Nissan Murano 20,000 miles and what a dog!

Watch Out for the Drivers Seat

2006 Murano S FWD @9 Years old and 150,000 + miles

Repairs a Nightmare

Hidden Transmission warranty

Very Pleased Overall -- CVT Not So Much

Best vehicle i've ever had.

engine and transmission problems?

Pretty good little SUV for the $$$

Worst Car Ever 

Murano Migraine 

This car is not worth the money.

Never another Nissan

It's a great car

love it / hate it 

MuranoMisery

Nissan Mxama buyer

To the max

Getting the Maximum from my Maxima

Great ride

Unreliable vehicle for the high price

Beware - My Murano Has Not Aged Well

Good value for the dollar

Fun car 2

Former BMW driver

Great Car

Great car

Good car has its defects and damage upon deliver

Maximizing my Maxima

Great car overall

Run Far away and don't look back

Don't buy a MURANO!!!

221,000 miles 2004 Nissan Murano

Avoid High Mileage Used Murano's

Cannibal Car 

Designed for short term fun, BEWARE of Maintenance cost

Practical, Comfort and Elegance in One!

Disappointed

I love my 2004 Nissan Murano.. so far.. lol

How do I hate thee, let me count the ways.

Nissan's safety standards saved lives.

Should have a mechanic as an option

worst car i ever had

Carol

A  Dream Come True

Great Sedan!

2013 Nissan Maxima needing new Engine?

Sports Sedan

DONT BUY IT! UNLESS YOU ARE STUCK WITH NISSAN AND HAVE NO OTHER OPTION

Six month to decide

Still have my Max- follow up review

Much better than I expected

Knock at low speed.

Bad Resale - Buy it if you want to keep it 

3rd Maxima

LOVIN' it to the MAX

Thought I was getting good deal. Nope.

One of the best cars for the price

2012 Maxima review

I love this car.

Nice car

Good bang for the buck

Nice vehicle overall with the technology package.

early, but so far so great.

Best Value Sports Sedan

Love my maxima !!!

Good car, could be better

Own a car you love

My Wife wants to drive my Maxima, I don't want to driver her Lexus ES 350! :-)

So far I am loving it!

Impressive Maxima

Couldn't be happier!

I love this car

Fast and fun

Miles aint nothing but numbers on 2010 sv...

2010 Nissan Maxima SV Premium Package

5 years, 125k miles

My 2010 Maxima

Superb vehicle and value

great car

A well built machine

15K Miles & 7 Months Later - GREAT!

2010 Maxima - Fit and Finish

CVT Technology and the 2011 Maxima SV

Don't compare to Camry & Accord

Not perfect, but is still Nissans 4DSC 

2011 Maxiima 3.5 SV--fully loaded 

Passenger airbag light malfunction

Bells and Whistles

Transmission Failure!

4 Door Sports Car with 5 Star Safety!

Still convinced after 6k miles - No better Choice Out There!

Just OK

HOT HOT HOT!!

Best of 2009 - Maxima

2009 Nissan Maxima (this was never a $40,000 car)

2009 problem

DON'T BUY IT

Passenger airbag light malfunction

Rattles and more.

Love this car

Rattles

Nissan disappointing FAST

Maximize Your Ride

4 door Sports Car

Best Car Ever Owned

Good for the money...just good

Best Maxima Ever!

The Problem Car

The best MAX ever

Recommended with one stipulation

Underrated Performance

Nissan Security Flawed

Beauty And The Beast

First Nissan

Perfectly Pleased with my Platinum

Fast and Furious

most pleasant car so far driven

My Maxima is the MAX.

Enjoying my new ride

A huge step up from 2014

Traded my 2014 Mustang for the all new Maxima!!!

Plum

So glad I waited for the 2016

My Love Affair With the Maxima

Love my Platinum

Transmission trouble!

Very impressive

Never Considered Nissan... Until Now

Great premium level sporty family sedan

The Did It Right

Excellent value, comfort and acceleration.

3k miles in, great car so far.

lemon law , two recalls one oil seal

Cramped

Maximum for this Maxima

Maxima should be Minima.

Maximize your ride! Fast and Ferocious

Riding to the max.

Professional Critics: Stop saying the same things

Dream Empty Nester Cruiser

Best sedan I've ever driven

Great Car

A really nice car that no one knows about

Maxima Man

Squeaky Driver Seat

Nissan Maxima - Maximum performance and style

The automotive equivalent of Britney Spears

Maxima 17 Platinum

718: there is no substitute

Where has this car been all my life?!?!

Wow, I love my New Porsche Cayman S

My Land Yacht :)

Best Looking Murano Platinum I have ever seen!

Finally Happy A Year Late

Love my Murano!!

Luxury without the luxury nameplate

Having Lots of Fun

Great 2 Row SUV

I love Muranos

Great Comfort, Well-Equipped... And Yet...

happy with my choice

Like riding on clouds!

This car makes you feel good!

I miss my Xterra, but ....

2017 NIssan Murano SV Trim

There is something wrong with my brand new Murano

Familiar but different

Puts Mercedes GLE 350 To Shame

Snappy SUV

Riding on air

What Infotainment

unreal vehicle

Asome

Murano to go

murano musings

2016 Mo Mo

2016 Nissan Murano Brake Failure after a month

Very impressed. A real luxury suv.

Love this car

Awesome!!

Well Executed, Balanced Design

Great CUV so far...

2015 Nissan Murano Platinum

slipping transmission w/intelligent cruise control

A Great Car So Far

Nice But Twitchy Steering

Murano Moving On Up

First Impression and later

I love my Murano SV

Not for a family

My 2014 Nissan NVP SL review

Poor not a family vehicle.

Outstanding large family van

Good but could have been great:  3.5 stars

Best Value

Awesome vehicle!

Fully Loaded Platinum Review

Great Value For A Crossover SUV

First impressions

2015 Murano - The longer you live with it, the more you love it. 

Almost Great

LOVE MY 2015 MURANO  PLATINUM!!!!

LOVE MY MURANO

New Nissan Murano Crossover

New/Demo Murano

Best SUV I have owned to this date - 10/11/2016

2014 Murano

Great SUV for the money

A 60k car for 40k

Luxury for Less

Murano Platinum vs Mazda CX-9 touring

Luxury Features Without the Cost or Cachet

Suprono Murano

Worth a look

2016 nissan rogue SL - more changes please!

Exploding Moonroof

Running Rogue

Rogue SL AWD Doesn't Disappoint!!!

Luxury Wagon

Gone Rogue!

handsome vehicle

D&C's Rogue

2016 Rogue...NICE!!!

Nice Drive

2 years old and already major repairs.

Vibration and Rattling Noise when Driving - 2012

Great subcompact crossover

Great small SUV at 3500 miles!! VERY happy!

Everything We Expected

At 58,000 miles it started to go...

Love my Rogue!

My Wife and I Love this SUV

LOVE MY ROGUE

Rogue 11

I felt comfortable the first time I drove it....

2011 brand new

What a snow car

3rd nissan, GREAT ride

should be avoid nissan rogue2017

Test drive was rogue

It's great

Transmission Is not repairable

Went for a Juke, got a Rogue.

Much Bang For Your Buck

This Car Sucks 

CVT Transmission is awful!!!

Fantastic!

Sporty and Comfortable, Bad Visibility

STAY AWAY!!!

Lemon that Nissan has yet to fix or replace

New Rogue Owner

Great Car

Massage seat vibration

Nice everyday transportation

Been 6 months, we love it!

Reliable-Stylish-Economically Savvy

Enjoying the ride

CVT Disaster

2011 Rogue Review

For the price, you really can't beat it. 

What it's missing

VERY PLEASED with my Rogue!

Love my Rogue

So far so good!

2015 SV Premium Package

2015 Rogue S

Great Car the came out on top

Best crossover on the market.

Best option out of 8 tested cars

Really enjoying our rogue

Great and Affordable

Going Rogue

Fell in love with a different car.

great suv

The vehicle I've been waiting for.

Such Fun to Drive

Wish They Made Them All Like This

The perfect Van

Reliability and Quality is the Key to Me

solid transportation

My Quest

NIssan Quest

Innovative when new, but not anymore

What a workhorse

Family workhorse

my 1995 Nissan Quest

Has been pretty good

5 yrs in Canada and 130 000 miles

reliable and strong

my luxury vehicle

Starting trouble & more

Nissan Fan.......But the Quest??

1998 Nissan Quest XE A Good Family Car!

Great Buy!

Served me Well

A Work Horse

Don't by if u need reliable A/C

Die and get it over with

Well Worth the Money

Father with 2 boys

Engine is great - accessories stink!

Happy Owner

Some of the best money I have ever spent

Good value -new models not so good

My Baby

love it !!

Great vehicle

Best car we ever had in our family !

Nissan Quest

Love my Nissan Quest Minivan

Started out Great but....

Nice Quest but...

A Fantastic Minivan

Get What You Pay For

Nifty little Nissan

Will run forever

Great Minivan

Nissan Quest

My experience with Nissan Quest

Energizer Van

Passing it Along

Great van

spoiled quest

Family Fun

Reliable old Quest

'94 Nissan Quest Minivan

Excellent van 

Awsome van!!!!!!

Used, But Like New...

Wish I Had Purchased Something Else

Couldn't ask for a better vehicle

1997 Nissan Quest

A van that rides like a car!

'97 GXE

good vehicle

Quest

'97 Quest

Looking for greener grass

I love my Nissan Quest!

Great Vehicle

142,000 and going strong

A reqal baby -- our '97 Quest

Would buy again

My experience with 97 Quest

17 years and still going

Great little Van

The longer the better

Mom's Fun Van!

wont stop till the tire drops

Built Proof

Been another two years...still working.

Can't Kill it

Quest is a good family van!

Fun to drive watchout for manifold bolts

The Title Says It All!

Nissan Quest - 93 model

A great car

Nissan will pay for manifold bolts

Fine, but those manifold bolts!

Love this suv!

no brainer for the price

one problem after another

Overall love it

Agree.........the A/C is Pathetic

Almost a luxury car, and for a great price

Supremely Happy With My New Rogue - It's In A Whole 'Nother League!

Kiddie Pool inside of your rogue!

Very Impressed

Nice SUV but bad AC 

So far so good, but MPG is way off

Good vehicle, a few disappointing SL features

go ahead pay twice as much for a label

So Happy with this 2014 Nissan Rogue SV

Reality with MPG

Fantastic car all around!

So incredibly impressed!

LYING NISSAN

Excellent SUV...

Fabulous vehicle!

Worst car

Frustrated and Disappointed

Don't trade in your RAV4 for this!!!

ROGUE 2013 MISSING SAFETY FEATURES

2013 Nissan Rogue 25 MPG

Long drives make it a bit sluggish

Pros and Cons

I'm going to die in this car

Rogue SUV review

Only thing I like about my Rogue is it's a Nissan!

A solid CUV

Don't take a trip more than an hour and a half fro

The car we'd like to love !

Go Rogue

Death trap

Fun to drive

Poor rear visibility, road noise, good value

At 60K miles I need a new transmission

Ideal choice for Singles and Small Family

Great value, reliable, fun, and nice interior!

It's a good SUV

Best in Class for Style, Value, Coolness

Excellent Small SUV

Awesome Car,  The Truth!

Deal gone wrong

Luxury SUV in Disguise

Everything I want in a small SUV!

Rogues08&15

The Murano killer

Cool Star Wars limited edition Rogue one in white.

Transmission Overheat and Failure

I'm expecting to an accident soon

The Transmission Should Be Trashed

CVT Transmission Issues

In one word: Practical

Well kept secret!

A fool and his money

Rogue

R1

never buy it again

I'm writing this to help you make up your mind!

Happy with my purchase

Most comfortable in its class

2017 Rogue

Rogue One, Star Wars limited edition

Buyer's remorse

NV 200 perfect for small business

NV 200 Not Enough for the Job

Nice Alternative for Small Business

Poor quality control, good over all package

Road Trip

NV200

nice lile van

Adequate but disappointing; not a CR-V/RAV4 beater

Wife's new rogue

My Second Rogue

Highly Underated

Fantastic!!!

Perfect fit-High tire cost

exactely what I needed

n/a

Rogue - better than the reviews

So far, so good

My Rogue Rocks!

Love my 2016 Rogue

Sporty CSUV

NV200 First Impression

Great small cargo van

Great Cargo Van at a Great Price.

Bad rear axle and tires

Bad Warranty

Excellent get-about

window needed on back passenger side

I LOVE driving my Nissan Quest!!!!!!!!!

Best Deal....why look anywhere else?

Been a great one for me

peice of junk

Recommend Quest 2000

2000 Quest a good vehicle

problems after 75000 miles

BRAKE PROBLEMS

Average Vehicle

Good

Reliable!!

Decent...but no Odyssey or Sienna.

Good ride, but poor reliability in the  2000 model

mine

Great Van for the dollar

Worth for Money

2004 Nissan Quest 3.5 SE MiniVan

A dude in a minivan

The pros way outweigh the cons

Quest for Excellence...Keep looking!

Timing Chains are Bad!

Worst car I ever owned

04 Quest from Hell

Love it!

2004 nissan nxtgen

Improved Quest

brickley

the best van

No major troubles....but

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

Reliability????

Odometer

We call our Quest "the money pit"

Great buy

Bitter lemons!!!

Excellent Minivan - even the base model

Better and Better

Great Van

LOVE MY QUEST!

07 Quest Is The Best!

So much better than my 1999 Windstar

2007 quest quality

Problem with timing chain

Guess what?

A Great Ride

Great if you aren't into cold air or reliability.

First time mini van owner

SLEEK DESIGN

No comparison to other minivans

Great Van

2012 Nissan Quest SV

The 2012 Quest is the Best

I never thought I would enjoy driving a minivan until now

It's early, but so far.... WOW!

Best Minivan in the class

We absolutely LOVED our Nissan Quest, until..

Incredible Machine

Beware of Toyo A22 Tire Wear

Unbelievable Luxury

2012 Nissan Quest SL

2012 Quest ...  Luxurious with Creature Comforts

Best Minivan ever to come to production

The best kept secret in minivans.....

Great van but consider the cargo space.

Quest Is A Sleeper - Be Sure To Take A Look At It

Our last Odyssey

Beware CVT in Quest

Was gonna buy a Honda.....

Great Driving Family Hauler

Best Minivan Out There

Quest should not be discontinued!

Serious safety issue still unresolved

Smooth Ride

Infinity with a Nissan Badge

THE NEW BEST IN ITS CLASS

Best value minivan

Thanks For The Memories!

Why did I get the lemon?

Excellent 4x4 rig

1990 Pathfinder, original owner

1990 Pathfinder 4dr XE

2DR 4WD SE '88

Reliable.  Will not die.

1990 Pathfinder SE

loyal dog

91 Pathfinder - Only Car I Ever Loved

Solid SUV

Awesome

Could not be better

Solid Ride

One of the best REAL SUVs

bulletproof

My best friend

1991 Nissan Pathfinder SE-V6

The best SUV in the world.

Fantastic

Best Investment Ever

Love this truck! 

Don't buy Nissan!!!

Glad I bought it

Almost the Best

nice ride

Best car ever!

My '90 Pathfinder

Love my Pathfinder

Chevrolet Trader

Still Going Strong, and Heading Off-Road

My '90 'Finder

King of the Lemons

1987 2 door pathfinder

Confidence, fun, and buff!

Built to last

Like a Swiss watch

So far, so good!

2012 quest review

Don't Mind Making the Payment

Our PartyVan

Best Van Ever

2 months and 5,ooo miles later

I made the right choice

transmission problem,

3,000 miles and still going strong!

Smooth Ride

Loved, then not so loved.

Nissan Quest Rocks

One Year - Great Mini Van!!!

3 year owner 2013 Nissan Quest LE

Twin problems with sliding doors

Good Family Minivan

Better vans out there

Comfy

I'm glad I give the Quest a look. 

2011 Quest is awesome

Love my Quest but....

Just drove the 2011 Quest today

Best minivan for the money

Great Mini Van

Nice 05 quest

Under-rated by Automotive "Journalists"

Huge Dissapointment

80,000 nightmare

Great Van

Very Pleased with 2013 Quest

Underrated but Exceptional

So far, So Good!

The best minivan

OHMomof5

A very good mini-van.

What a joke on the consumer

Quest is a Hot Mess

Timing Chain

3 years

Quest, anything but a "minivan"

In Quest of the Perfect Van

This van is great!

You'll get good at installing brake pads

Great Family MiniVan!

Piece of junk!

What a disappointment

timing chain

Good bang for your buck

Nissan Family

Made cheap

Lemon???

One Year In

Great family car

Migrating from Sports Sedan to Minivan

2008 Nissan Quest

New van for the grandkids

Best of the best

Family dream

A great mini-van with style

Awesome People Hauler!!

Why the fuss?

New to Quest

Very nice minivan

Never Buying Nissan Again

NEVER!!!..Ever, Ever, Ever buy!!!

After 8 Months

Sexy Mama Van

Many Nissans owned - 3 Quests

Nissan Engines design to require timing chain replaced after 100k miles

Nice at the begining, then deception!

So not what i expected or hoped for...

The repairs just keep adding up

Nissan Quest 2007

Biggest problem is the 3rd row seat..

Love the look of the van and how much room it has.

powerful engine and smooth and quick shifting

Don't Buy this JUNK

1500 miles and that was it

We have loved our Quest from day one!!

I love this van

Outstanding

do not buy

What a disappointment!

BEWARE!!  10 RECALLS Already!

Something breaks every month

Never Thought I would Buy a Van

NEVER AGAIN.

Not refined

Bugs and more bugs

Great  four years, then problems.

Fantastic Purchase

Pretty Good vehicle 

Do not purchase.  Transmission issues that Nissan ignores

The Magic Bus

Good and comfortable family vehicle!

Runs good but cheap quality interior

200K and still strong

great for us

Wish I was a lucky one!!

Worst vehicle I have ever owned

Don't waste your money like I did

Better the second time around

2001 Quest GLE

Not quite, but almost a lemon

Could be better

great value

Dependable and easy to drive Mini-Van 

A Decent Van Built By Ford

Ya Really Have to Wonder About Nissan

Disappointed

Lovely, but too small for family!

Not a bad van after all.

nissan quest

Lots of good things

not bad

reliable family vehicle

blackmini

OK but still not a Honda

Very Dependable and safe car

Excellent Car

Great reliable car

Awesome Van ,   Hey bill7638737 you suck

I like it!

Durable Van

Hate minivans---love this one

family freindly

new

We love it

Not splashy but functionable

More bang for the buck!

2nd Quest

THE QUEST FOR A SATISFIED OWNER

Nissan Quest good family van

Great soccer mom car, not for a new driver!

nissan sucks

Under Rated

Excellent value for the money, still looks modern

My second Nissan Quest

Look's Great, Rides Terrible

plenty of power

JUDGE FOR YOURSELF

I love my van!

the undiscovered van.

Satisfied Customer  and Repeat buyer

thems the brakes

This one sucks

120000 and still going

This has been a great vehicle!

What happened?

Constant Front End Problems

fun to ride

Better Van Needed

Mom , Pa & Children's Minivan

almost perfect

Nice Van

Best Damn Mini Van Out There

Nissan Quest lover

Very Good Van W/few problems

Pretty Good....I guess

It's Ok, better than american made

Love my van!

Not Great, But Definitely Good

Awesome for a mini-van

British Columbia Driving

Trouble Free

Luxury Features - Fits in MY Garage

Reliable SUV

Fun, Fun, Fun

Great Foundation

Nissan Has Won Me Over!!!

An excellent choice and value

not bad at all

GREAT CAR

A Fond Farewell

Hank's Review

Trouble free

Gotta Love It!

Inexpensive, Quality, SUV

A Few Things to Watch Out For

Best SUV for your money

Off-Roading Beast.

Best Vehicle I've Ever Owned

Great car in college

Poor Gas Mileage

Superb

practical

Check Engine Light Problems

Bulletproof

Fair Trade

Unreliable Car  & Expensive Repairs

Beware Of 01 Pathfinder. Find a diff car

Love this old thing

just needs more hip & leg room

Best car I've ever owned

The Overall Best SUV...

great car

01 Pathy's OK, but...

I made the right choice

Electrical Nightmare

4th Pathfinder, still love them

Love this vehicle

Overpriced, but good SUV

POS Nissan

FYI

BAD CAR!!!!

4x4 heaven

My pathfinder is the best

Nissan- What?!?

Excellent truck, that's right... truck

Good All Around Performer

Favorite Car Yet...

176,000 miles and still going...

Unbelievably poor craftsmanship!

Getting rid of it when I can

My last Nissan

major problems!!!!!

Don't Buy 2005-2006 Pathfinders

If I Could Turn Back Time

More of the same!

Transmission oil cooler

this is a lemon...trying to make lemonade

Second one, love it

Fun SUV!

Gas Gage and Oxygen Sensor Issues

Great SUV for the Price

Weekend Warrior

Another Radiator/Transmission blown!  No Nissan!

Don't Buy Nissan... PLEASE STAY AWAY....Buy Toyota!

Can only recommend with caveats.

My dog likes it.

Great midsize SUV so far.

great so far

DO NOT BUY A NISSAN

Great Value

Good but not Great.

TRANSMITION PROBLEM

I am torn on this review...am I one of the lucky ones?

STAY AWAY!!!!

2005 Pathfinder

By far WORST Car I've ever owned in my life!

Is It a Good One?

Almost Got It Right!

Pathfinder

2007 Nissan Pathfinder Tranny/Coolant cross-contamination --DO NOT BUY THIS VEHICLE

Educate yourself '05-08 Pathfinder Radiator issues

Worst Vehicle I've Ever Owned

Coolant fluid leaking into transmission!

Transmission / Radiator issue must be addressed

Good Car

Don't be Fooled by the Appearance.  Don't Buy Nissan!!!!!!!

Has Been Excellent, but...

Satisfied for what it is

Pathfinder owner for five years 

damn

So far so good

I love my pathfinder

Transmission Problems

separate the transmission fluid from the radiator

Coolant leaking into transmission fluid

Best of the best

How to love your Pathfinder

Survived

One of best motor vehicles I have owned

Its a great SUV

This Pathfinder Is Outstanding!

Good SUV

Sweet Ride

My first car :-)

Pathfinder

I'm buying another one

Pathfinder

Limited Edition Pathfinder

Crash tested 2 of them!

Ideal automobile for the growing family!

Great SUV

This is my 2nd Pathfinder

THE BEST SUV

Great SUV

Bluetooth

Nice SUV

Good at the price

Great SUV

Be carefull

Steady and Reliable -

Strong SUV Nissan Quality

2010 nissan pathfinder

One to Keep

Pretty Ignorant But Got Lucky

1998 Pathfinder 4x4

Cash For Clunkers Victim

Nissan Never Again

Great SUV

Dependable, but not exceptional

2010 le 4x4 with nav

Snow Digger

It's just okay

My Third and Final!!

Factory Paint Flaw

Good All-Rounder

The perfect choice

Love my 2011 Pathfinder..it completes me. LOL

Good Choice

2011 Pathfinder

2011 Silver Edition Pathfinder

Why did they change to a CrossOver?

Definitely Recommend!

Very Reliable

Great vehicle

great buy

Nissan will fix it

Transmission Torque Converter Issue

super bulletproof

It is a LEMON

Excellent Vehicle

rattle box

Great SUV

Right Choice

Great SUV for the money.

Powerful V6 SUV 

Pathfinder LE "08"

Best family 4x4 ever!

Never buy Nissan!!!

MPG After Two Years 

Great but popping noise! Help

2008 Nissan Pathfinder

Driving in NY city

Happy

So far so good

One of the best SUV'S in the market

Good Overal Package

4th Pathy

A good thing better

The Nissan Won

Great Choice

Great SUV

Think Twice Before You Buy

No regrets

transmission,calipers,engine,Nissan Consumer Affairs 

Buyer Beware

45,300 miles and going strong

Love her durability, hate her defects

My 1st new car is a Pathfinder

Biggest piece of crap I've ever owned!

No more Nissans for our family

06 Pathfinder owners beware.

Don't buy a used one

Owned since new

Squeak-noise

Not pleased with my purchase

One owner. Garage kept

Pathfinder = Reliable

Better than I expected

2003 Pathfinder, worst SUV ever made

My two cents.

Tough rig

I love this vehicle! 2003 Pathfinder

Just upgraded

Great Car, Great Value

Homerun

Very good vehicle 

Solid Vehicle

It's ok

Disappointed

My first SUV and I love it!!!!

Solid Solid Solid

Tough little SUV

Nearly  Flawless

2004 Pathfinder LE Platinum - Awesome

She gets me there and back

Paint peeling

Speedometer NOT work at 55+mph

a

Pathfinder

Very happy with this truck

Old Dog - New Life

Nissan Pathfinder - 

worst car/suv  I ever had

I love it!

7 Year Review (LE Model 2WD)

Why buy the Infiniti QX4?

Major problem right from factory!

Imapathfinder2

Quality, Dependability & Great Used Car 

Rugged  Sport   SUV

7 years and still going

2002 Pathfinder

Is an OK SUV, will not buy again.

Great vehicle, very reliable

2004 pathfinder 

200k pathy

Awesome SUV!

BUY A PATHFINDER: U WILL THANK ME!!!

Last year for 5 speed stick shift 4x4 Pathfinder

Love my Pathfinder

2002 Nissan Pathfinder LE

Still going 

Not what I expected...

Unreliable and Costly

Great truck for anything!

Good truck for the 1st 100K

Super

Pathfinder Review

Bought new and 165k miles of trouble free driving

Bulletproof!!!

After 100K start looking for something else

Awesome ride!

great 2nd car..Love it!

My 00' Pathfinder

Good, solid vehicle

This thing guzzles gas!!!!!

Love My Pathfinder

Super SUV

Great Vehicle, Dealer Lacking

2000 Nissan Pathfinder LE 3.3L V6

Reliable ride for 3 years

One of the best

excellent SUV

Nissan Pathfinder LE 2000

Would buy another in a heartbeat!

2000 Nissan Pathfiner SE 4x4 Fully Loaded

99.5 Pathfinder 217k miles no problems

Great SUV

great SUV

mixed feelings

A Homerun

Huge disappointment

Best SUV on the road

This car saved my life

BEST FOR TOWING BOAT :)

Best suv hands down 

Excellent Car

Impressive

Love my pathfinder

Great  mid-size 4X4 SUV

I'll never get rid of it

Hardy Value

Kelli's word

16 years old and still going strong

It keeps on ticking

17 Years old and still going!

Old Faithful

The old toy!

Great SUV!

Reliability

My workhorse...

RR

1999.5 Nissan Pathfinder SE Limited

I Love my 1999 Nissan Pathfinder

1999.5 Nissan Pathfinder LE

Moon mileage.

Reliable and great in off-road/snow conditions

Going Strong

Nice truck.

Awesomely reliable

rugged, dependable truck

POS Lemon

Very Pleased

A great preowned SUV!

Poor performance, expensive repairs

Do Not Buy One

Loved it-buying a new one

Good SUV despite Nissan

Gray Nissan Pathy

ambivalent

95 nissan pathfinder

Infinitly better than a chevy

Very good SUV

Nissan ruined this car with the poor frame material they used

1995 Nissan Pathfinder XE 4WD

Great All Around

95 Nissan pathfinder SE

Can't stop it!

Lucky owner

Nissan Pathfinder

Extremely Reliable

Tough Canadian SUV

Beautiful and reliable

Japanese Quality???

Best vehicle I've ever had

Even more reliable than I am.

Built to Run and Run

Nice 4X, but some minor problems

95 Pathfinder 4x4 SE

Poor Mans  4Runner

Very Reliable Truck

Dang good buy.

Try this for your 1st 4WD

Excellent Multi-Purpose Vehicle

94 SE

Served Our Purposes Well

Good to buy use

1994 Pathfinder SE V-6

So far so good.  Nice SUV with gas mileage like a car.

READ THIS!!

great suv

97 Nissan Pathfinder

Been a Great Car

Well built little SUV Truck

XE Path

Basic transportation

Not Worth It

No more Nissan!

Reliable Compact SUV

Best SUV for your money

120,000 And Still Driving

Decent car

Great vehicle

I don't understand

Bullet Proof

pathfinder

money burner

Rugged, Reliable and Sporty

Great 93 Pathfinder

great car

pathy

Very reliable SUV with a smooth ride

One thing to remember.... timing belt!

pathfinder my faithful SUV

Pathfinder quality

Still luvin it

Still Running

Great Car

Reliability Plus

TANK

The Beast

Would Buy it again

1992 Pathfinder XE

Solid truck

The Little Truck that Could

Best Vehicle I've Ever Owned

Solid truck

fuel sending unit

Awesome SUV

performance&quality

A great little truck

Best SUV ever

'93 Pathfinder

Teenager's first car, still lovin it.

Fairly High Mileage

Solid, reliable SUV

Great Car

Great Little Truck

Luxury "Minivan" in SUV configuration

I Love My New Car

Love this SUV

Cool blue Pathfinder

Nissan Pathfinder rocks!

Fantastic SUV, couldn't be more satisfied..

My path led to The Pathfinder

Awesome

1 month. So far so good

Love and miss

wosrt suv ever owned

I was shocked

Nissan Pathfinder Platinum

Love love this car!

Always drove a Nissian but not as happy this time

A great way to get into a roomy suv

Not what i expected!!!!

I love this car

Simply Amazing

202k miles and it still gets 40mpg

Good car

just wont stop running

3 words- Affordability, Luxurious, Economical!    

Overall - poor designed car

Almost perfect

Shuddering transmission

2014 sl pathfinder

Very Reliable

Decent car but I must've gotten a lemon

Great Dependable Car For the Money

Great Car

First Car

A great Value

Greatest car in it's class

The Boo-Mobile

Solid Buy

12 years, 147,273 miles later

I will never, ever buy another Nissan!!!

2014 pathfinder

Second time around not better...

Don't Make a $36k Mistake!

CVT Transmission is JUNK 2 in less than 1 1/2 year

My Nissan Sentra

A solidly built, reliable compact car.

Best bang for your buck!

Great on gas, but has a few problems

Good car for the money

Stay away from CVT

Expensive car with major issues

2015 has the Shudder or Judder

Drive train troubles

The kids named it Thor..and I'm okay with that

Good car

OMG What a great little car

98' Sentra SE -  A fun little car

1998 Sentra GXE been a great car

98 Sentra GLE

Few Major Problems

 1997 Nissan Sentra

What a Car!

NISSAN IS GREEEAAAT!!!

Great car, Worst Dealer

Good Buy

best bang for your buck

Excellent, affordable transport

Easy Maintenance & Great Mileage!

Standard Econobox

1997 Nissan Satisfaction

I got suckered!!

great car

 starting to go!

Not so good

2000 Nissan Sentra

Great car for the money

Great car - GREAT MPG - buy one today...

Excellent Car for its price

Bang for the Buck

Wonderful over all.

56,300 miles & not a single problem yet!

2000 Sentra Review

Good Little Car; Fun to Drive

Great car - great value

Stick with a Honda

Lots of fun to drive w/o spending alot

An Honest to Goodness 200K car

ABS Brakes - PLEASE

Great inexpensive commute car

Boring to look at but can't kill it!

Great college car

Reliable car!

WOW!

excellent

1992 Nissan Sentra SE-R

All Cars Should Be As Reliable

nissan sentra classic

sentra se-r

the SERious sentra!

A runner

Genre definition of its generation

SE-R

se-r

keeps on ticking

Outstanding Vehicle

Most relaible car I've ever driven

Best car ever owned

love this car even after 12 years

Had to get another

Nissan Sentra 

2000 Nissan Sentra SE

Piece of foreign junk!!!

Problems down the road....

One Problem After Another

my sentra

Was okay until 165k miles

Attached to this car.

fast and fun

1999 Nissan Sentra GXE

Good Rider

My First Car

Nice little car...

Small But With a Punch

A few significant problems

Amazing

Small & Reliable

Overall a good buy

180K and going

Great car

Built to last!!

Made to last!!!

Not Incredibly Memorable One Way Or The Other

value of a 1998 nissan sentra

Not a happy camper

Reliable and Enjoyable

Great car!

Old Faithful

practical and economical

Best Car Ever

Love This Car

Why don't they still make them like this?

Wow this car is AMAZING!!

GREAT, RELIABLE CAR

This car is a great workhorse!!!

Gas mileage is good

Like it 

"Old Reliable"

1997 NISSAN SENTRA

Sentra

Best car ever!

Best car of its class

Post your miles on your 93 Sentra

A great  first car

The most reliable car ever!

I love this car!

Most Reliable Car I have Owned!

I love this car.  It has been the best.

Best Kept Secret

Couldn't Find a Better Beater

Still Running Good!

Fun!

The best car ever!!

SR20DE'd

perfect car

The Energizer Bunny of cars

Good little car

Eh, it's average.

Like a Rock - Nissan Style

Nissan Sentra

reliable transportation

1994 Nissan Sentra

Just wont die

Great Car

I Love My Sentra

Fantastic Car...

it is great

Awesome Car...simply put...awesome

A Car which Aged Decently

It keeps going and going

The Car that Won't Die.

Great little car!

couldn't be happier

Great First Car

Great car

Rust eats this car fast

my 1st car ever bought, out of 4 today!

NissanSentra96

Very cheap to drive

Good Car, Bad Trim

Bomb Proof Dependability

Fantastic Car

Just can't get rid of it!

Reliable Car

190 K miles and it keeps running

really good

Excellent-economy family car

Well crap!

Great Car

13 years and going

Am I the only one??

Original Owner

Little Econobox

I LOVE this car

My Mean Green

Great Car !!

Durability

I expected more

Not bad

Great Car

Economical

Reliable Car for a Good Price

Just keeps going

PLEASANTLY SUPRISED!

Wonderful

Rallymobile

The best car I ever had, a.k.a. my Bessie Mae

Just an amazing little car

an OK car

Nissan Sentra 1995

this car is a "life-saver"

250,000 miles and still going strong

the little car that could

An Underrated Value

No new car for me

Don't Buy A Pathfinder

Frustrated with our new Pathfinder Platinum

2014 Pathfinder SUCKS!!!!

Transmission is bad

Avoid a 45K error.

Best car I ever bought!

1991 nissan sentra xe

I thought it would be nice

Good Small Car

198,000 miles and counting

Amazing little car that sets the bar

bang for the buck

One of best cars i ever had !

Car

Good little car

CVT problem Nissan won't fix

Great vehicle

Not happy and here are the reasons 

So much potential so much maintenance

First week impression

Nissan Fan Turned Sour on Quality

Safety issues

Transmission issues hardcore

Transmission Problems with no fix

 2013 Pathfinder review after 2 weeks of driving

2015 Pathfinder - Great Warranty Inferior Product

Parthfinder is the worst SUV

Msgr is pleased

Nissan Hybrid its not worth for its price/ value

At this Price Point -Its an indisputable Winner

Money Pit

Love my Pathfinder

Love My New Pathfinder

poor build quality

3000 miles on '15 Pathfinder and already problems

Good car but Nissan cheaps out on cross bars and CD player

CVT Software Glitch Results In Drivetrains Replacement. .

MY Wife and I really love this car! Purchased 2 months ago!

Transmission Issues

Starts with "L" ends with "emon"

DON'T BUY THE PATHFINDER

Do not buy this vehicle!!!

The good & the bad (transmission)

Run away

Delivered Broken

Best Vehicle I have ever bought Quiet smooth SUV

Love our 2015 SV.

Had a ton of vehicles and by far best "Family" SUV

2015 Pathfinder - GREAT mileage UNTIL you trailer

Best third row, best infotainment and best combination of features, 

Great car, excellent interior quality

Love the car, terrible Fucillo dealer experience

Quality vehicle, inside and out.

SL Tech Package = Pure Luxury

2015 Pathfinder with CVT failure

$200.00 goes a long way

26 years old and still on the road as a daily

Just 'cause it's a Nissan---

My first Car.

20 years and getting old

Great Car

300K

368,000 and going

This car will not die!

My Sentra

Still going strong

GREAT CAR!!

2016 vs. 2013 - Let's Compare

Great Ride!  Mileage is sub-par so far....

Quality Materials + Smooth Ride = Great SUV

Very, very Pleased after Purchase!

Nissan Value

Great vehicle

1 Year Review

Great for safety!

my picker finally worked

Great Truck...

...continued

2 Year Recap

MPG

2 Weeks Old

Nissan Pathfinder Plat vs. Honda Pilot Touring

Great drive for great price

7 Seater was the reason we bought this car.

Just got it

Great SUV

2017 Pathfinder Platinum

3.5L V6 beating 1.8/2.0/2.5 L V4s

Great features; great price; very nice ride!

New Pathfinder

Excellent car

TYPE R SPEC V NISSAN SENTRA SPEED MACHINE

Nickel n dimer 

Just on the way home

Good Value

Great Car

Excellent small car- Miss it so much!

Strong like bull

Good and reliable

New car NIssan Sentra XE 2001

Great bang for the buck

Wont be buying another 

Spec-V 02

I am done with NISSAN

never again will i buy nissan

Honest review

SE-R Spec V < the sum of it's parts

243,000 miles and still running

Don't even think to buy this car

Great Car Value

Fun Nissan

I will never ever own a Nissan again!

OK, but not great in bad weather

No Nissan....ever again!! These cars have a serious safety issue!!

This Car Stinks

A lot of problems...

Won't buy another nissan

My 3rd Sentra!

I Love This Car

Good Value, Nice Features

my 
Disappointed with SE-R

Never another nissan

Best car ever

I LOVED MY SENTRA

Major Issues After 60k - Lemon

Average

Love this car!

An awesome little car

Fix the fuel pump!

Poor quality Nissan car

1.8special edition great on gas

Still solid at 194k miles

Fuel Pump

Good car for first time driver!

Great performer

Great little car!

Great Car!

just got mine today

Honda/Toyota fan gets converted by SpecV

Great value for the money

Sentra Suprise

Clunking Noises

ugh

2012 Nissan Sentra S (Auto)

Awesome value and performance

Very Pleased So Far

Brake failure 

Not confident with Nissan reliability

HATE MY NISSAN SENTRA

52000 Miles. NO MORE CVT'S!!

Doesn't start from first try

Keeps truckin'

Great car for those with a low budget in mind.

2006 sentra

trooper

Love My Sentra

Another Nice Nissan

great car for the buck

great car

Go for it

DON'T IT

2005 (special edition) 1.8L

05' sentra shifts strangely

It's...decent?

Terrible Car - Buyer beware!!

Good econobox on a budget.

Remote entry problems, Again!!!!!

This is the worst car I ever owned.

Nissan Sentra

Best car I ever owned.

Can't wait to get rid of this nightmare!

Did not age well

Blown head gasket 110KKM, 5 years old

Been Pretty Reliable So Far

DONT BUY NISSAN!!!!

Don't buy it you'll regret it

Nightmare Nissan. Never again.

New Wheels!

Sentra sv

Not impressed with size

I used to be a Nissan fan...

Buyng & Driving the car was easy, dealing with WC

beware...

under achiever

Nissan Sentra

2015 Not bad total but very poor interior desgin

bad transmission

Safety Issues

Bought a 2015 Sentra

Love Nissan and like this car but...

6 speed manual

Sentra SR , answers the call

my brand new 4 month old sentra  transmission die

For the basic Nissan Sentra 2015

Great Value

Frustrated!

2005 Sentra Special Edition 1.8L Auto

Love this Car

Reliable

Blown Head gasket Problem

Love it

Perfect tool for the job.

Go to another brand, any other brand!

drifts and pull

Overpriced for what you get

Great experience 

2014 sr

If you're under 30 and have no kids don't even look at this car.

All I need is a parachute!

2014  Nissan Sentra SR we call Silvy

Not what I expected

Everything I Expected For $17,000.

NOT WORTH IT!!!!!!!!

It does it's job

Excellent ride.

Great for the first 1,000 miles

Avoid like the plague!

So far we like it

Worst Decision Ever

its no honda civic

Took a risk and fell in love with this car!

Awful Car

Be Careful, known stalling issue

The Real Poop On the 2013 Sentra SR

Transmission

Love My Sentra SL

Total piece of CRAP!

Great not so little car.

I love my car...BUT!

I'm getting a little scared...

My first real car

Extremely happy with purchase!

Can't complain

Not confident with reliability/would never buy Nissan again.

12k Horror

Not Satisfied

Not as expected

Best little car I've ever owned

Great car / Great value

2009 Sentra S

Excellent Sentra

Surprising Performance

Not happy

Could Have Done Better for the Money

Impressive

Cute Little Car No MPG

I think I got a bad one

Fun little car

YOU WILL RUN INTO THE SAME PROBLE WITH CVT TRANSMI

People Need Retraining

Great Car!!

CVT in 2012 Nissan Sentra (Texas)

Edmund's Review is WAYYYY off the Mark!  AMAZING CAR!

Great car!

Don't buy this car!

AWESOME CAR

I wasn't planning on liking this car

This car is underrated!

Better than expected

Love this car.

You won't catch your granny in THIS one!

2008 Nissan Sentra Problems 

Somewhat impressed

2008 Sentra 2.0 Pro's N' Con's

Cute Car, But I Hate It

Good basic transportation with suspension issues

Good car

worst engine the vechicle could have

08' Sentra Um Not so good...

I Love My Car!

Disappointed and filled with regret

Was expecting better quality from Nissan

Two years and going strong.

Brakes or noise

I love my Sentra!

Reliable, economical and not bad looking

CVT TRANSMISSION

Warm Slippers

Snappy Sentra

2008 Nissan Sentra 2.0

Grinding Parts

overall a great value for a decent commuter car

Bad Sentra 2011 2.0 SR type

Good Car and Dealer

Very slow CVT transmission until warmup

Great Value

Love my 2011 Sentra SR

"Blackie"

Love the 6 speed stick

Everything is going well

Sentra's overall wins

2011 Sentra SR CVT 50K miles

Nissan Sentra 2.0S

Liked it better than the Corolla

Not good as expected

Nissan Sentra 2.0

Up date

 A perfect car for me!

2010 sentra a/c issues.

Pleased with my first 

2010 Nissan Sentra 2.0 S

Avoid the Snetra

Love my 2010 Sentra!!

20K Mile Review - Sentra SR

Clicking noise

A great, practical car 

Fast, Smart, Stylish, Practical, and FUN

We love it!

Don't walk RUN from Nissan Sentra!!!

So So Sentra

Nice, but...

Great Buy

Very pleased

I love my Sentra SL!

After one year with our 2011 SR

Great car at a great price

2 years down the road

One of the Worst cars ever owned

A lemon on wheels

Could have been better...

2003 Nissan Sentra GXE

This CAR ROCKS

Nissan Sentra 2010 - no recomendation at all

Great car EXCEPT...

Do not buy a Spec V! Engine problems!

Sentra SE-R

A good thing gone wrong.

Worst Car I've ever owned.

I Miss my Sentra

Good for the first 7 years

(Of Course) Bang for the buck

Low mileage

Nice car for the price

The All New Sentra Rocks!

Great Car!

Never had an issue

Not for the Average Joe.

i have owned 3, let me be the judge!

First car

Fun car to drive

Love my car!

Love the 6-Speed Manual Transmission

Big Little Car

Needs improvement

Junk car 

fun to drive

Very practical vehicle

Another Bad Engine

Engine Replacement Already @ 82,000

The "Sleeper" for 2007

Great for SHORT drivers!

Great vehicle - beats all competition

Great Price and Outstanding MPG

Sentra is a homerun!

Great Car for the Price

Bad Transmission

2004 nissan sentra 1.8 liter 4 door

Great Little Compact

Small annoying problems 

Just meh

terrible car

the little engine that could

nothing but problems.

Love My Car!

Horrible Purchase

Basic QG Manual

My Spec V

Very reliable car

Not a Bad Car

Best buy in its class!!

Nissan

no title

Sentra Fan

All Grown Up!

Excellent value + safety

Nissan Sentra

Nothing but trouble!

Fun for your money

WILL NEVER BUY NISSAN AGAIN

just bought my 1st sentra

love the little black sr so far.

Most Who Review For A Living Lose Touch Sometimes

Love my Nissan

INTERIOR NOISE

My First Nissan

Nissan Sentra Great Car

Piece of Garbage!

Wow. I made a mistake.

Love hate relationship with my Sentra

Best car I ever owned

Not reliable

Good car - only minor problems

Rattling is driving ME CRAZY

Don't buy a Sentra

2001 2L Nissan Sentra SE

Great little car!

Cheap deal and MOSTLY reliable

Best Car Ever

Still got legs

Reliable Car

Lucked out with a great Jaded SE

Terrible Car

Reliable.. WHAT?!

Pretty Decent

2016 Nissan Sentra SR Faster than what's said

More than just affordable, reliable transportation

If only it were turbocharged

GreAT Value

Buy this car NOW!

Pro 4x Cummins

Platinum owner

Titan name should be....

Titan XD

a HUGE head-scratcher

Okay drive, but don't get too excited.

Engine literally FELL out of car driving  35 mph

204,597 miles and going strong!

Good on gas

Cheap Materials

Consider instead of paying for the H

very  happy

Sad to post...

Not for Montana driving

Does it's Job...

ROOMY, LOTS OF PICKUP...

very reliable

Love my Versa

2009 Nissan Versa 1.5L Sedan w/AC

After 2000 miles

Has anyone else had this problem?

Nice car

Magic in Orlando

Dealer/MFG BOO BOO's

I'm Impressed !

all the bells, w/o the stupid whistles

I love my new Versa!

Smooth, Quick, Efficient, and Fun

Versa has many problems!

A good car at a great price

driving 2007 VERSA

Love this car, but...

Versa/Kenny Ross 

2 year update

Hot Car, took forever to get

Great car for the money

Just great car

Versa

Nice little car

Try it - you'll like it

Excellent commuter car with space

Love this hatchback!!!

Best things come in small packages 

Roomy small car

Titan

Repeat Nissan Buyer

Best truck I've ever owned

Feature rich compare to Ford F150

Titan really rolls

My experiance...

great truck

Disappointed

Best truck on the market

Great Vehicle

Titan

Good, but could do better

Super Big Truck

2005 Se king cab: Glad i bought it

Titan From Repeat Nissan Buyer by Hirby

Best truck I ever owned

Differential Problems

great truck, lots of bed space!

1st and LAST NISSAN!

87,000 miles Problems Galore!

Nissan won't warranty Known Axle Issue.

worst truck ive bought

Best truck I've ever owned

Great Truck!

Love this truck

Awesome Truck!

Hit or Miss

TITAN IS KING

LOVE THIS TRUCK!!!!

BEWARE OF THE TITAN

Great Truck

Love my Titan!!!!

stay away

Owned for 3 years

Extremely Disappointed

Truck of Trucks

Great truck!

Nissan Rules!

Best Value Pickup

What a truck

Titan power

High Maint Cost with subpar parts

poor choice

Horrible fuel mileage

Nice Design, Lots of Power

Nissan Titan Crew Cab

Titan is the truck

Incredible Truck

Great Truck, Woudn't Trade It For Anything.

Titan - Drive the BEST

Best Truck I Have Ever Bought

Bad Tranny

Best Truck

Nissan Built the Right Truck

Depends.

The great titan

The Perfect Year of the TITAN

bye bye chevy

Best In Class

an excellent truck!

MIXED Feelings??

2006 Titan

good choice

Awesome

Sharp looking and fun to drive

$12570 with 1.49 apr for 4yrs!!

Solid car 4 the $$$

Nissan doesn't stand behind warranty.

Not so great MPG

Rolling Thunder....

2006 king cab titan

Best truck I've owned

Unreliable

Not reliable

Good value (if it doesn't break)

Very good car

This is a nice car

Good Commuter and nice drive

Versa Sedan S model 5 Speed

TOUGH Little Car..

Nissan Versa SL

Made for MPG, not for YOU

Brake failure 

2013 Versa 3800miles

Nissan made a Monster

Can't wait for the new one to come out!

Lights out

2004

Excellent Truck

Great Truck. 

Great Truck!

2004 Titan

Problems with Vehicle

Perfect Truck For The Road Or For Towing

Can you say reliable? 

You get what you pay for

2010 Nissan Versa Hatchback 1.8 S 4dr Hatchback (1.8L 4cyl 4A)

I really want to like it.

There is nothing better for the price

Excellent Car!

Great      best value for the price

Versa Hatchbacks ROCKS

Great little car!

Vice versa

Most reviews are BS...

Little traveler

burnt in the high desert

Noisy Engine

What more could I ask for ? sub compact utility vehilce

my versa

2014 Nissan Versa

More reliable than your Ford

New so new I shouldn't be writing this review yet.

this car handles well and it commutes well

No complaints

Warranty pit

Pass on Nissan too many issues to count!

Designed for regret

Bot This car only to burn miles

for your info

Economy Vehicle

2015 Nissan Versa SL

It depends what you're used to...

Great car for the money!

Transmission

Bad transmission

love my versa but....

Would have happily paid MSRP- Great Car!

Well rounded useful car

It fits our life

Just crossed 174,000 miles...

So far so good - bought used - owned it for 6000 miles and 6 months now

Week lil car

You get what you pay for

smilingary

Stouts Versa Review

Versatile Versa

A Total Disappointment

A Great Way To Save Some Cash

Good economical transportation

fuel pump went out at 50k

What a roomy car, and economical.

Loving the Versa

Realistic expectaiton still to much to meet for this car

Awesome little car with a few minor flaws.

CVT is defective, should be recalled..

serves its purpose

Pleasantly surprised to say the least

Unique Small Car!

Very Unreliable

Solid for the $'s

The Price reflects the quality

2015 Nissan Versa bad transmission

Great Economy

Bad Engines

Reliable as all get out

FIRST NEW CAR

Great, so far

Love the Versa

Mixed feelings...love it but worried...

Very Nice Little Entry Level Car for Pri

2010 1.8S Hatchback

Tire pressure monitoring/front bumper

Hit or Miss

Versa the vest.

2010 Nissan Versa S HB

Where are the parts?

LUV MY VERSA

Absolutely Great Car for the money

Good car, great price!

BEWARE OF THE 2012 NISSAN VERSA CVT !!!

Not Reliable

WAS a good car, we thought!

A Great Car

Love it so far.

Where is Nissan's quality?

Great passenger room and cheap!

My Second Versa

Most practical car I've ever owned

Versa

Good value for the money

A great compact

Still going strong.

My 2009 was great

Nifty car with many luxury features one weakness

So Far So Good

Accident Prone

A Fool is born everyday

Very pleased with the cost-benefit

Love this roomy little car, but...

85000 and never changed anything but oil

versa

AVOID ALL VERSA'S AT ALL COST!!!

The worst car ever...

Nissan....not again!

Review after 69,000 miles

We've had more bad times than good

NEVER HAD AN ALIGNMENT PROBLEM

Nissa does not care about CUSTOMER SAFETY!

08 Versa Hatchback (CVT)

Love it! A few problems, but it's great for the money!

My 1st Car=Amazing 2nd review(3 years)

old blue

My 1st Car = AMAZING

Loved my Versa for the first 2 years...now...not so much

This is a car that you can only "Make do"

Love my Versa so far
Cant beet the price for a new car.

Rental car - high hopes dashed

No storage room, no pick up

The 2016 Versa Sedan no Vice needed:)

Not a roadburner.......

You chose a Good car at a Great price

Leave my expensive cars at home drive the fun one

Uncomfortable for long distances

The good, the bad, and the indifferent

Looks great!

The Versa is verstile!

Con's

Basic Transportation

Great car

Good value, but needs improvement

2017 Versa My First Car

reliable transportation

Warranted if not driven outside

good for the elderly

Excellent for the money

Totally Awesome Car

Not What You Drive, But How You Drive It

The 2016 Versa Sedan no Vice needed:)

Versa S 5 speed manual Good point a to b car

My first truck

pro 4 leather packages

Very Nice

Just a test drive, but WOW

nice truck not a half and not a 3/4

Look out Ford and Chevy, UFC Titan is here fight!

Titan XD Pro 4X Diesel - Cant beat the Cummins !!

Titan XD tows like a beast.

$65,000 trash can

FITS A NITCH!

Best Truck Yet

Long Time 3/4 Ton Guy to Now a Titan XD Guy

Well worth the money!

I Said Good Buy to My FORD and Silverado 2500

Pro 4X Nissan Titan XD

best truck i ever owned so far

Great Truck 

Great Truck

The Big let down

Quality should be a concern

My second Titan

Great truck in comparison!

Third Titan

Best truck

Titan = Bang for the Buck

WOW What A BEAST and the rest will drool

Titan of Pick Ups

Why go American?

Best Truck on the Road

2nd time around

New Truck - Same problems

Great Truck

Not Very Happy

Bad trade in value/bad gas mileage

Very satisfied

Great Truck

Awesome Truck

New truck

Horrible

Love it so far

Disappointed

Value+

Disorientingly Fast!

Best in the market 

GT-R will GeTcha!!

Best car I've ever driven 

Awesome

great car

Great, but a little passionless

Godzilla worth the wait

The incredible edible egg

A gem!

Takes a licking

have loved this car

Reliable car

Needs improvements

awesome armada

love this truck

I would buy this over and over

Cool Truck

Godzilla invades USA!

Meets and Exceeds Expectations

good to me for many years

10 Years and going . . . 

Car for an Environmentalist

Okay car

Old faithful

Unforetold secrets

Excellent Vehicle

Excellent car for many, many years.

Love my car

Best car ever

GREAT FIRST CAR

Good car but  electrical needs work

Reliable but boring

Good commuter, Great reliable value.

it's a keeper

My expensive Altima

Competent and reliable

Very Dependable

Has been a decent car

BEST 'LIL CAR!

solid used car

My first real car

It was good for a while . . .

Loving my Bluebird 

Leakage

Blast to drive

Fun car, not a family car

13 years in the making

Everything but the seats

1st Z

Great car, but know your options

don't believe what you hear..

A Gem, Actually a Pearl

My fourth Z and the best so far

Oh Baby! Sweet Ride!

Worth the money

the red one

+why you should or should not buy a Z

Awsome Value

Best Ever Owned

Party of two

370z Review

Go kart on steroids

370Z Roadster 7 Speed Auto

King of the Hill

Great Car

My 3rd and BEST Z

After 1 year &2600 miles and top is beyond repair

Not bad if you don't look at the paint

To Zee or not to Zee

Love my New-Used Nissan 370Z Roadster!

Keeping Fingers Crossed

'10 370 Z  best sports car for the money

Z the rockect

Love my z!

What can you get better bang for buck?

MY FIRST 2 SEATER

Seats only the japanese could love

Too many issues for brand new ca

Great car! Only a couple draw backs

Best overall sports car value

TOO MANY issues... cant be fast if its broke.

Impossible to drive smoothly

Just a fun car

Performance, Style  and Value

Get the sports pkg...

It Has a Poor Convertible Top Design!!

Love the Convertible. Dislike the Manufacturer

ZeeYou later.

Great sports car and looks great.

Its a blast

370z - finally...bucket list item checked off!!

Love the Z

Great sportscar value

STAY AWAY!!!

Wow

Good hand-me-down Car 

Happy driver

96 Altima GXE

Your Average Car

The little car with a surprise

This car is a TANK! GXE FWD 4 door Manual

Great first car

Couldn't ask for more!

Bulletproof

Trouble Free

Saved My Life!!

Nice commuter

Been there for me for over 10 years

takes a lickin and keeps on rolling

A Reliable Gem

Best bang for buck, but still lacking...

reliable used car

too much car for what a pay for.

Love my car!

extremely reliable

Altimas are Reliable & Fun to drive!

Higly Reliable,  low maintenance 

Altima GXE

Great Value

Decent blend

Zooowaahhh

All true

It's all true, the good and the bad

poor man's GT-R

Nissan Certified 370Z Touring 6MT

The 370Z car need an ENGINE OIL COOLER!

Itza great car

Dont waste your money

Engine Oil Temp Concern

A Blast to drive

THIS IS A VERY GOOD CAR!

Amazing car

Altima GLE

Great car for the value

Good used car

Superior reliable, powerful and heaven to drive

I had bad experience with it

Super reliable, impressive 5 speed performance

You can trust this car!

1994 Nissan Altima

Best Z-Car Yet.

Fun to drive

Thrilling--- Even For An OldGuy

GREAT!

It iZ what it iZ

94 Altima Review

Dream come true

Love It for the Money

Dream come true

Worry Free Drive

1993 Nissan Altima SE Just ROLLED IT!

Very good cheap car

I miss my car

Former Altima Owner

Dissapointment

2009 Nismo

Fantastic

My 2nd Z

Fun to drive!

Love this car

Nissan's Corvair

big disappointment

Okay

Best SUV

Armada Mama

Armada reflects Nissons racing lines

G R E A T  Vehicle

It's Big!!

Poor Design/Quality

do not buy

Best $1000 Ever Spent

Surprisingly good acceleration, smooth ride !

rare diamond in the rough

I'm in Love with my Altima

Best thousand dollars I spent

Best car I've owned Period

GREAT SUV FOR ME!

Armada-my first big unit.

Very pleased!

Get ready to shell out huge $$$ for repairs

still love it!!!!!

Great  Buy

Cali Review

Cruise ship 

Love It

The Ultimate Vehicle 

From Fla to NE

The best SUV

Big Power, Big Room and Big Style.

Interior rattles, but fun to drive

The Best  with Class.

Tough truck

None

Objective Review

Great SUV

Best hauler 

Learn from other's mistakes

a truly underrated car

This year is should have been skipped

I love it!!

The best truck I ever had.

Nice Secret

Love my Armada

10.7 Inches Ground Clearance!

Great Truck but - Beware of Brakes

Not bad for the money

Moe's Armada

great vechicle

Great but............

the best SUV yet

THE modern era supercar!

Automotive orgasm

Phenomenal Rocket Ship with Amentities

Only the transmission

this is the car

It was great...at first

Nice Secret

Love my "Batttleship"

Nice SUV for family road trips

Awww!!!! Man!!! Another Mistake

true excitement

Ferarri Beater

WOW

Super Car performance for less

A great car with mediocre customer servi

Nissan Never Again

Nice vehicle ... BAD brakes

After 5000 miles

Armada

Nissan Armada LE 4X4

Absolutely amazing

Should have been the new Z

Wow

Godzilla! What you heard is true!

2010 Nissan GTR

Godzilla is as great as you have read

pedal to the metal biatch!

Wish i had anonter one!!!!

Very good perfomance and reliability

Pretty satisfied with my first car

Abby....Altima

i love my car

Love my Altima

Ultimate Altima

It's been a great car

Best bang for buck that runs forever!

Long-life reliable car

solid and practical car

Reliable until now!

Loved this car

Loved and Lost

2000 Altima

2000 altima gxe

Like a liitle Accura

2000 Altima SE - Manual

Awesome

Good Transportation

2001 Altima SE

As Reliable as it Gets

Just average

Poor reliability, known problems w/ this model

Good car to commute!

Just OK

Disappointing 

Ok, but disappointed

Good Handling

Bad Nissan Experience

Keeps on Ticking

Pretty good car

first car

Great car!

DONT BE FOOLED WITH THIS LEMON MODEL

NEVER buy a NISSAN!!

Nissan hate is easy!

Bang for the Buck

Good car

Its a pretty good car

Ok decision

Mechanical mess

Through thick and thin

Great, fast "Four-door 350Z" car!

Look out Toyota

I got a lot of car for my money.

175,000 miles later, this car saved my life

Sleeper Sport Sedan

Just bought 2007 Altima 3.5 SE

The 2008 is GREAT!

Reliable Car

I did 130 mph in this car and could have done more

Fun to Drive

Had to do this for an english class

Not So Ultimate Altima!

Ultimate Sports Sedan

One of the best

Run from it like your head is on fire

Beware!

5 years, 60k miles

Rusty 2008 Altima

altima issues

sporty little economy car

I think I'm in love with this thing.

Nissan Altima...SMH

stay away

Still loved my 2008 with 61k miles

Transmission needs to know me?

Most Uncomfortable seats ever

Better than expected

Reliable so far at 63,000 miles (January, 2017)

Proud Owner

Get out of my way with the 3.5SR

super nice car

Awesome Vehicle!

Altima Coupe, a good choice

200k

Stylish Ride.....But

Built to a price

I have loved this car

Awsome,no problems

Do not buy any CVT vehicle.

Nissan worst car I've ever purchased

crappy transmission

My car go everywhere no matter what

Paint Defects

good bang for the buck

Overall Good car minus few annoyances.

Vehicle

a real car

Give me back my Honda.

Great basic car with tolerable downsides

Nissan is Reliable

Very disappointing car

I used  to love nissannot anymore

Great car, but strange noise at 30 MPH

2012 Nissan Altima 2.5S - 125,000+ miles

Solid Car

Very Surprised

Thin paint

Electronic Steering Column Lock

6 years and still going strong

Thee Worst Nissan ever owned!!!!

It is what it is.

So Far So Good

2012 Altima 3.5 SR

Most dangerous vehicle on the road

Love the 3.5 SR 

Dim Headlights

Don't buy!

Getting Closer to Luxury

New Car Nightmare

Push Button Ignition System

Good car but unstable in winter

I love my 09 Nissan Altima

Everyone's Right..To a Point

I can't believe the responses on here.

2009 Nissan Altima Poor Quality Interior

It's the Ultima

After 11 months ownership - Very Pleased

Still running great after 140k miles

Nice for the price.

Commuter

Enjoy the car so far

Great Car for the Price

Great ride!

A few surprises

My first coupe

Bad Engine and a lot of issues

Owned 3 years, treated me well!

Reliable, roomy, & fun 4dr sedan

Great car!

Problem Keyless Start

Dream Car.... or is it?

2011 Altima w/ SL package

2011 Nissan 3.5SR coupe

Perfect Mate :)  

I am in love!!

So far loving my car...

Smooth, quiet ride

A lot of value for the money

Want to hate it... but just can't...

2.5S w/special edition pkg.

Still loving my car!

Most reliable car with great mpg

Altima CVT Transmission Problems

It was the most perfect car I've had

Great performance but terrible comfort

Great Sporty Car!

Good, get the back up camera option

Enjoying my new car!

Best Altima yet and I should know, this is my 4th one!

2011 Altima

Style with Performance

Just reach 160K Running great

Long term owner

2006 Nissan Altima 2.5 Excessive Oil Consumption

2000 Nissan Altima

Best car I have ever owned.

Well traveled

First Nissan

My first Nissan and the last one 

2006 Nissan Altima 3.5 SE

Best Car I've Owned

Excellent Value.

Nissan

Bought a used Altima that had 150k on it.

Awesome.......is all I can say

Transmission blew after 30 miles!!

172,000 miles and no problems

love at first drive..

Excellent

Truely A Great Car

First time Nissan owner!

Nissan's Brilliance Evident in 07 Altima

Great New Design

In Love w/ 07 Altima

Most bang for the buck

2007 Awesome Altima

Fun and fast

1st time Nissan Owner

Very comfortable and fun to drive

Amazing

Almost There

Nice Surprise

I'm a fan

Dealer Employee Review

A blast

Big, powerful, looks great; nav. is junk

Excellent car at an affordable price

hot to deaf

george

great car

Be warned

Best Car I ever bought

2004 Altima with 225,000 miles

Not Too Shabby

Ok First Car

Too many repairs

Worthless!

No happy with it car

DO NOT BUY!!

my altima

Value for the Money over my Honda Accord

Great first starter car!

2004 Altima 2.5L SL

our car

185K and going strong

Nice

The last Nissan I will ever own. 

Long lasting low maintenance

Got screwed by Nissan again

2005 Nissan Altima SE-R

I love my 2005 Nissan Altima SE-R

8 years old, 148,000 miles, still happy

AVOID THE 2.5L, You'll love the 3.5L

Totaled

 2005 Altima SE V6 270,000 Miles and counting 

Junk

Wow, this is fun to drive

2002 car of the year... NOT!

My Altima 3.5 SE

Money Pit

A fine, reliable car

Few issues but overall solid

The pain of loving a nightmare

200k and going strong

Very fun car.   Reliability can be so-so though.

Best car I have ever owned.

I like the car

Manufactuing defect.

consider yourself forewarned

Wonderful car

Great car

Excellent car, 144,000 miles

Best first car

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR!!! Looks good but repairs are needed every couple of months

Cool Ride!

Edmonds pays off again

'03 altima 2.5s a drivers pleasure

2003 Nissan Altima

buyer beware

My 2003 Nissan Altima

2003 2.5 4 cylinder Altima 

OK for a town car, getting costly 

Love my Alti

Nice car to drive, some changes to be made

I love this car!

I love This Car

Reliable

A solid car with its own Achilles' heel(s)

Awesome car

An excellent trooper

All good at first

A good car with some kinks

Great car

Sporty and reliable

Pain [non-permissible content removed]

Nice Car, "Service Engine Soon", light came on at 82,000 miles

Best car I've ever owned

Great Reliable Car

2000 Altima GXE

Not the best experience

145K miles and still going strong

Old Reliable

Terrific Value

Not Bad...but not Good

So and So

My Altima

It has 200,000km and lady-driven (which also means lady-maintained...lol).

BEWARE THE INTAKE MANIFOLD GASKET ..... 

this car is just good

Overall A Great Car!

Review

Great, dependable Car

Wonderful car

Disappointed

still miss this car

It's a darn good car

Good ol trusty

Very Good Car/Value 

Spirited a-b car

98 Nissan Altima GLE

Well worth the money!

Good old Reliable.

High Mileage Altima

great delivery car

Our Marshmallow Car

My little coco drop car

Excellent car

223K Miles and Still Going

Reliable Car

Best car I have ever owned

love my Altima

Great car

recommended

Great Car!!!

My Baby

Reliability at its best

Better than honda and toyota

So Far, Pleased

99 Altima GXE

Thumbs Up for the Altima

Great car

It's a nice car

16 Years of Dependability

Best car in my life

My Nissy

very reliable

Decent car with maintenance issues

Very Satisfied owner

Great Car!

Good Car

Life Saver

great car!

Reliable & Fun But Unsafe!

Great Buy

Terrible car

Its an OK Car

Don't Buy It

bad truck

WHERE IS MY $100.00 GAS CARD???

Reliability of My Nissan

Beautiful car

Recently Purchased My 2016 Altima 2.5 SR

2016 Nissan Altima SV - First Month of Ownership

Noise Maker

WORST CAR OF THE YEAR NISSAN ALTIMA 2.5 S 2016

First Altim Lasted 17 years...heres to another 17+

Altima continues its legacy of excellence

2017 ALTIMA 2.5 s

Review of Altima SV

Great car

My first Nissan

Too new for problems

Nissan Altima 2015 s

2015 Altima- new transmission at 10k miles

Lemon car

Hyping our 2015 Altima SL 2.5

Great car to drive, technology needs work.

A big surprise!

My 3rd (and best) Altima

Dislikes wind noise and engine noise (4-cyl.)

On To My Next One...

Pleasantly surprised!

Noisy Nissan Altima

Well balanced car for the $$

Improvement needed by Nissan

Great All Round Car

Almost a grand slam

Impressed- but.

2.5S - The good, the bad, and the ugly.

Best SUV in its class

Love at First Sight

Forget the others, buy the Armada!

Made the right choice

New 2007 purchase

Fun to Drive

BAD REAR END CRASH******RESULTS

Great car with a lot of space and power.

The best SUV I have ever had

Best Large SUV IMO

Front End Driving Stability

Worth It!

I have the same wind noise 

What is that noise?

Love it!

What was I thinking

Has fit the bill

I love my car!

Great SUV 

Best SUV in its class by far 

the best ride

Thinking of a Nissan? A cautionary tale.

My battleship!

An Armada and a 6,500 lb boat

Couldn't be happier!

My second armada

6 month old car had to take it in 4 times already!

New vehicle with old vehicle issues

Huge,Suv

Amazing Sound System

this sucks - im so disappointed

Transmission gave away at 378 miles!

Armada, designed to die at 5 years.

Love it!

Still better looking than the competition

Break Pads go out!! & Dismall Fuel Economy

Perfect Options

Absolutely in love with my BEAST

Nice SUV, Very roomy and comfortable drive

Ridiculous Nissan and Baker Nissan Dealer

Mixed

The Armada

Good Decision

2011 Nissan Armada SL

Brand new and already needs repairs/replacements.

2011 Armada SL

great vehicle

2011 Nissan Armada

Happy, happy, happy!

Great truck for the money

2009 LE fully loaded

Powerful and Tough

Armada 2009

Not the best handling SUV on the market.

2009 Nissan Armada LE , 4WD, 5.6L (V8)

Great Value

Larger than life SUV

Big, Fast, and Safe

Waste of money

Armada

Best Big SUV Period

Big and Fast

OK truck not better than a Sequoia

Disappointed

2008 Armada LE

2wd LE

Love the 08 Armada

Love This Truck

Very nice truck

Love the Armada!

Great Truck

Stop Looking, This is it!!

08 Armada

The Armada is great

2008 Armada LE 4x4

2008 SE Armada

Hardcore

The BEST Full Size SUV

One of the best purchases I've made!

Beach blast

Love my 08 want a 2010

2008 Armada

If Only...

Great car

SUV on a grand scale

Very Satisfied w/ Fancy New Armada

Luvin da Mada

Good Value All Around

I luv my Mada

Armada 2010

Bang for your Buck!

Best Value on the Market - Very Happy!

LOVE MY ARMADA...LOVE IT!

Very Happy!

Great SUV

Smooth Ride with Powa!

Purchased used

Amazing SUV for the right CORRECT PRICE

Value Leader

My second armada

Not Bad, NOT GOOD.  Intended FLAGSHIP ... letdown

Poor suspension

Nice Car

2017 Nissan Armada is EVERYTHING!

We love our Armada.

Horrible Owner Experience

Great looking SUV, questionable quality

2017 Platinum Armada

NEW ARMADA IS THE DEAL OF THE DAY!

limited exposure

Ride On

Large limo

Aramada

Happy Repeat Buyer

Very Pleased

The New Armada is a Beast!!  In a Good Way!!!

It makes car owner experience great again

This SUV is a beast!

Good truck

Rumble noise in engine/transmission above 20MPH

CAVIAT EMPTOR(let the buyer beware)

Love the car, but watch for the whine

I knew better than to buy the first year of a redesign

First and Last Nissan!!

My 2013 Nissan Altima is not a year old yet and already have problems!!!  Do not purchase this vehicle

VERY disappointed with car - many problems.

Nice Looking, Noisy Car

Cvt Problems Nissian says cannot correct. BEWARE

2013 Altima review - Nice car

Complete transmission and sensor nightmare!!

Transmission number 4

Comfortable & good to look at, but that's it.

Disappointed!

Transmission failure early

Listen up everybody it's not the CVT transmission

Great car

Very disappointed 

Listen up it's the alternator not trans

Lemon

Good Car with some CONS. (Handling)

Love my Altima

Phenomenal Value!!!

Nissan Altima 2014 SL

''ultimate altima''

Mixed Feelings

It's what I was hoping for

2014 Nice but...wiring/electrical issues!

2014 Altima S

2014 Pearl white Altima 

2017 Altima 2.5 SR review

Best value of any car I've ever bought

Great car

Comfortable, all the power I need

2017 Altima SR

I love this car

Transmission failure

..."Surprisingly sporty"...

The Best Car I have ever owned 

Transmission, tech pkg

2 years later

Went from Sonata to Altima

Perfect Family Sedan/Comuter

Rental Car rides again

No so impressed after three years of ownership

Air bag defect within 1st 500 miles

Goodbye Accord, Hello Altima

10,000 mile updae

I have now had 2 Altimas, Great Car, Great Value!

Best mid size car and Better than the competition!

Nothing bad to say about this car!

Engineering at its best

My SL is sure luxery

Decent

Great so far

Great car so far

The 2016 changes make this car.

No test drive needed

Altima 2016i

1 Year UPDATE I Love My 2016 Nissan Altima 2.5 SR

Great Truck for the price

Great city truck!

Great truck

Back again with another Titan

poor quality

Great Truck

my friend the nissan

Satisified Used Truck Owner

Impulsive purchase

Pass on this one

2002 Frontier just so-so

2002 Nissan Frontier King Cab SE

good  truck

Super Yellow Truck

Gold SC Crew Cab 4WD

What a TRUCK!!

Nice but could be even better

Love My Nissan

who needs a better truck ?!

valuable exposure

Most reliable vehicle we have ever owned

transmission from h____

2001 Nissan Frontier

The best truck I've ever owned

Tough

Love It

This truck made me a truck lover!

07 Frontier 4x4

26 MPG V-6 Auto  4x4 4 door!

No Power!

great truck

Efficiency over Power

poor fuel economy

01' Nissan Frontier v6 - NOT Recommended

3700 

Almost there

Good value for the price

New truck owner

Great Truck!

The Beast

Great all around truck

2008 FRONTIER LE CREW CAB 4X4

2008 frontier

Reliability requirement met

My Horse Barn Truck

Cross country journey

Buy the 2.5L if you can find one for sale.

"Unfortunately my Wife LOVES it!!!

My Nissan

annoyance overshadows good

I got the right truck

Frontier is a great truck in the city!

It does exactly what I need it to do.

Great Truck

Another Prior Tacoma Owner

Great truck

Great offroad but also a excellent grocery getter

Better than a Tacoma

2011 King Cab 4X4

2011 Frontier Crew CAB SL

The Little Engine That Barely Could

One Sweet Truck

GREAT TRUCK!!

Rear end job on the owner

Don't buy a Frontier

Bookkeepper One

2nd Frontier! Best in class pricing and value!

Former Ranger owner

Nice, No Frills Crew Cab SV 2015

Great Truck

2012 Frontier SL- Winner!

Manufacturer defective driver's side seat

Great quality for the value

2016 Frontier 4 wd, SV.

Great Truck..once I got everything from the dealer

OKay  little truck

2nd Frontier

Very Satisfied with My Truck!

2016 Nisson Frontier

Tacoma or Frontier

Solid Performer - All around a Great Value

Almost perfect

My new Hammer!

2016 Nissan Frontier Pro4x

Best Buy in class

A 6 time Nissan owner not disappointed

Lots of pep@1600 miles

turning

2013 SV 4X4 fan

I love this truck!

AWESOME small truck!!

Overall all right mid size pickup

driving off into the sunset

@1000 miles

Cheap to buy, cheap to own

2013 SVV6 KC AT 2WD

Gassy

A Jaunty Truck

So-far-so-good

It's a real work truck and I traded it

didn't due enough homework

Manual midsizes, a lonely club

Rugged and Reliable

Good size, mid price

Consider something else

little bittie trouble

Great little Truck!

Maintenance Horror

$$$High maintenance$$$

Great Truck as long as you don't have problems...

2015 Frontier

"Wannabe"

2015 Frontier

My third Nissan

Noisy Fun

A real honest truck!

2015 Frontier 4X4 4.0L SL crew cab LB

Worst purchase of my life :(

Best midsize dollar for dollar.

nissan frontier , the El Toro of trucks

Rockford Fosgate on Rocky Ground!!

Mixed bag but great bang for your buck.

Nice, Real Nice

Nissan Frontier - can't find model I want.

great first truck

Love This Truck

Frontier of my discontent

Great truck!

It loves gas!

Done with Nissan

Fantastic pickup

First Mid-sized and Happy

Transmission No gears

So far...so good

Embarked on an (almost) new Frontier

Best Value in the Small Truck Segment

2010 Nissan Frontier

Watch your spare tire...

Gotta love it

2010 LE Frontier Review

Great for light hauling and commute

Brand new truck stalling in the middle of the freeway.

Better than a Tacoma

Very Nice Truck

Forget Toyota, get a Frontier!

Traded up from Toyota Tacoma

Very Nice 4 cylnder Midsize Truck!

Did not want to like it.

Nice Truck Pro-4X

Love my Fronty

2010 frontier review

2012 Nissan Frontier Crew Pro-4x 4WD

Best Dollar for Dollar available  

2012 Nissan Frontier SV Sport Appearance 

Awesome!

moved up from 2004 xe

Back to nissan :)

Love this truck

damn good truck

Convert from a Tacoma-30k miles and going strong

great truck-- excellent value for the money

2012 Frontier King Cab with Sports App Pkg

I'd Buy it Again

GreatTruck

Really impressed with this truck!

Almost perfect! Almost

Turning radius!

Hot tip

08 Frontier SE 4cyl 5spd

So far so good!!!!

Turning radius!!!

Great truck, but as always a few complaints

My brilliant silver king Frontier

2011 Frontier 4x4 with 50,000 miles

nice truck

Better Value than a Similarily-Equipped Tacoma

First mid-size pickup.

Glad I made the switch to the Nissan

Best of the Compact 4-doors

Great deals on 2011 Frontiers right now

Love my Frontier!

Fantastic truck

LOVE this truck!

Very nice truck

Nissan Quality

08 Frontier king cab

solid performance

good truck

2009 Frontier

Great mid size truck

Follow Up to June17th review.

Little BIG truck!

Hooked on the King Cab 4cyl 5man

Great Truck

A KEEPER, AT LEAST FOR NOW

This Truck Is A Keeper ! ! ! !

Buyer Beware! The Good the Bad, & The Ugly

good little truck

I Love This Truck

Better Than I Expected

One tough truck.

2009 Nissan Frontier/ XE

Nissan the next GM

pain to drive

Horrible Truck

Buy it

Fantastic Truck

3rd review at 18mos of ownership

Sold on Nissan

Pleasantly Suprised

Not happy

What I expected and more!

First Pickup

Best mid-sized crew cab of all

Great truck

Great Truck Good Value

!!!!!!!!!!WOW!!!!!!!!

Great truck, BUT...

Nismo quality

Thumbs Up to Nissan

in love

Very Happy

In front----Frontier

Forget Toyota

Overall I love this truck

Rides sporty & hauls great

Never buy another Nissan (Besides a Z)

A top midsize contender

Biggest mistake of my life

Great Pickup

Decent Truck

2006 Nissan Frontier

LE Crew Cab Rocks!

Avoid NISSAN!

Mixed Feelings

Gas or no gas???......that is the recall !!

I would buy it again

LE 4WD

Buy one if you can find one!

Nissan won't back their product

2005 Nissan Frontier  Crew Cab RWD SE MT

New Frontier better than Tacoma?

Can't Beat it for the Price

Impressed

comfortable but sturdy

Cool truck

Better than Tacoma......

Great Truck Except....

2007 Frontier

Great so far

109K Miles Down, Looking forward to 100K more!

LEMon

Great truck BUT not so good truck

"""I can't believe it ""

Bought it new at the re-design/12 years later....

My Nissan Stinks!!!

one issue after another

Original Owner

Strictly Utilitarian

I love Frontiers

Nice but....

Been an outstanding truck

Daily commuters delight

My first Pick-up

The best truck I will ever own.

True to it's Nissan/Datsun heritage

You had me at supercharged!

Buy It

Great truck

2003 Nissan Frontier Crew Cab

Great Truck 

First Nissan

My next truck....

Under the Radar Value

VERY GOOD TRUCK!

Another trustworthy truck!

Frontier 4X4 Crew Cab 2000

Good Riddance

Rock solid

Solid, low maintenance truck

2000 Nissan Crew Cab XE 4wd V6 Auto

Great bang for the buck

I love this hard body

Good off-roader, slow highwayer

Great Truck

Great Truck for a small Family

Great little truck in general

Ole Miss Update Last one

Great Light Duty Pickup

Love My Truck - Great Truck - Won't let it go

Too many issues

2000 nissan frontier 

Does it all

Best Vehicle Purchase Ever

Not the most powerful but very reliable

Great truck

Great truck

Best truck you will evr find

Great Pickup

My Frontier

Relize that its a great value

2000 Nissan Desert Runner

nissan frontier

2000 Crew cab XE, automatic

Very Solid Crewcab 4x4 Mountain Truck!

It's a great truck 

not too bad

Great Truck On And Off Road,

Nice truck

MY WHEELS

My Datsun  frontier King cab 

Nice quality truck

Good vehicle

Takes a licking, keeps on ticking!

great smaller truck

Good used vehicle

Nice & Slow

Great Work Truck!

Frontier Desert Runner

Chuck's truck

great truck, much better than its review

Great truck, I'll stick with Nissan

old truck new love

Avoid this Lemon

Little truck, lotta truck !

Best truck ever

I'd buy again but Frontier too big now

Great truck except for bogus OBD codes.

Disappointed

LOVE my truck!

2002 Nissan Frontier Saved my Life

First one

Nissan Frontier

BAD BAD BAD

Great Truck

Reliable, no-frills truck

Very satisfied owner

2004 Nissan Frontier

not so good

DARN GOOD TRUCK

I made a mistake in getting this vehicle

Was dissapoiinted

Cheap to Keep

142000 miles what to look for

Great Value

Would I Buy It Again?

Why no interment wipers?

Everything I needed!

Gets the job done

A Solid, Reliable Workhorse

Basic Dependable Truck

98 Frontier

Great, except for the headlights

Not Happy w/my nissan 98 frontier

Solid Truck

Just right

Great for the price.

2004 Frontier XE 303L LB 4X4

Third world country vehicle

A fun little truck

My nissan

The Perfect Truck

Nissan Frontier Forever

Good Truck, Super Reliable

Almost 8 years and over 75k miles

2004 Nissan Frontier

2004 Frontier

Great Year for the Nissan Frontier:  2004

cheap truck

Old Cricket

SUPER TRUCK

time to buy it

Mixed Feelings

Best Truck I've Owned

Amazed!

My first Nissan

Nissan Titan

Best truck for your money

What a truck that's over looked!

GREAT NISSIAN TITAN

GREAT VALUE, GREAT TRUCK

2014 Nissan SL 4wd

2008 Nissan Titan le 4x4 perfect truck

First truck, last truck

Been a great truck for 2.5 years now!

BACK AGAIN, and again

Death Wobble

The 2015 I just purhcased in May is my third Titan

wrath of the titans!!!

Great truck.

2012 Titan SL Heavy Duty Chrome Packagr

great truck

What can I say, but Wow!

Incredible car!!

Ninja Land Rocket

Beast!

Godzilla 

Great But

King of the road

Plenty of truck

Tried the rest, driving the best

Not for the Faint of Heart

Good Purchase

Big, comfortable truck

Since no one else has left a review

2013 Nissan Titan

Great Truck!

Watchout Blue Oval and Bow Tie

new to nissan

2 neighbor's F-150's in the "Bone Yard"!!

New to me 2010 Titan SE King Cab 2wd

To Bad Nissan

WHAT!

Great for towing trailers

Great Truck

First 6k miles

 Great Truck

2009 Titan SE

it beats walking

Lots of Power

Value, Value, Value...

Waited 7 years to write this...

2009 Nissan Titan - JUNK!!!!

Great Power,  Weak MPG

Still best truck out there

Overall piece of Crap ! Not a good investment - Buy Ford or Chevy

Titan tuff

Performs as Good or Better Than Advertised

Just an overall awesome set of wheels

alemon

Comparing my old 2007 Titan 4X4 with 2017 Titan

New Titan vs Old Titan

Living up to the name:TITAN

The Bentley that Reinvented the Name

Fabulous, except...

Outlandish

Reliable so far.

Amazing!

It's not a "quality" japanese SUV.

One Fun SUV

Love this Car

My first AWD

Outlander is Great

Excellent Vehicle

Surprisingly Good

Mitsu Review

Better than expected

Back seats kill me

Better than expected

Diana

10 years later

75k death

Great  SUV

Would buy it again

Buy One

I wish I still had my Lancer!

2002 Mitsu OZ Lancer

Nice car...

Fun, Quality Car

5 years old and running great

Great Car!

XLS AWD with leather package

Owner Impression of the 2003 Outlander

Outlander AWD SUV

NO PEP, But nice Comfort!

A great small SUV

Good Value, Nice Ride

This car surprised me

2004 Outlander sport xls

Not in the shop much

Only Lancer better would be the EVO

Giving Leeway

Silver Steed

Great Car for the Money!

It's a Very Good Car

Can't be Beat!

2006 Lancer Ralliart

Lancer Ralliart Review

Great Car (Ralliart)

Fantastic

Not Too Pleased

04 Lancer RA

Ralliart Rules

3rd owner and no problems

My First Car!!

Great First Car

Good second car or starter car

Wonderful Wheels

My Lancer

poor parts availability

Excellent Choice!

A little car that can

Mitusubishi Lancer ES - Excellent Value

Fantastic car for the money

Good Fuel Economy

And Still Running Strong

me mighty mo

Great little Car

BEST

Used SLK 230

Some Good, Some Bad

Fun little bling-bling car

Great car

Real world roadster

Marginal reliability

The best ride of my life

Excellent Car

Awsome

SLK 230 review

Just drive it!

Quick on the Draw

98  mercedes slk

Fun Drive

Great Car

Fun Fun Fun

SLK Fever

Mitsu. does not back their product!

I put down my ratte when I was 3

I like this car

This summer will be fun...

Great toys for the money

Great Car

Good riddance

You get what you pay for I guess

Chris review

driving in the snow

Should have read here first

Decent Car

Could have been perfect!

Glad it's GONE

Never again

Check insurance price before you buy

5 Year Review 2008 GTS

Just to let you know about some issues...

Best car I have ever owned

Soured On Mitsubishi By This Car, Money Pit

Bulletproof

best

Great Little Car

Great Transportation And Style

Value and Quality

good car

One of the best cheap Imports to get

Falling A-part

Our first car, great choice!

A VERY FUN CAR!

2004 Lancer ES Experience

Great basic car

Great small car for it's money

Mitsubishi Lancer Ralliart fan

Great Car

Love This Car

Best Value in its Class

2005 Mitsubishi Lancer 

2005 Mitsubishi Lancer

Great, Fun to Drive & Reliable Ralliart

Ralli

excellent car

Mitsubishi... I love you.

Excellent car for price

Great Value Japanese Quality at Korean Prices

Most reliable I have ever owned

Fun and Pratical

Great car! 

Value value value

Great car, bad company

Buyer beware

Nice Car for First-time Buyers

Lancer Ralliart

With Help...a Great Little Car

Better Than Expected

Value for money

Great Buy

Great Car & 0 Payments for a year.

A Fun car to drive

2006 Lancer

Sportcompact Segment's Best Kept Secret

Love my Lancer 3

From me to my baby girl!

RUN BABY RUN

8.8

Mitsubishi Lancer

Good Car

My Lancer

a great bang for your buck

Till The Wheels Fall Off

Best 4 Cyl Car

Good Car, but Kinda Boring!

Great first car I must say!

200,000 miles and still rolling smooth

Great Car

Its a okay car

Watch for the heater/air switch

GREAT CAR!

Suspension worry

Mitsu lover 4 life

Best car Purchase I have ever made!!!

105 K and still looks good

Super Reliable! 

Saved our Lives

Outlander

Great Ride 

aperance/convience pack-total cost 18200

Low price, good quality, fun to own

137k miles without one defect!

I love my Mitsubishi outlander

Pleasant Surprise

2004 Outlander XLS AWD

Worth the wait

Thank God I owned this car

2004 outlander

How Can You Lose For Less Than $20K?

Go Mitsubishi!

This car is great

Great car thus far

Solid car - very pleased

Best Car I Have Ever Owned

The Most Reliable Vehicle I Ever Owned

Best Buy Out There

Best Money I ever Spent

Traded my Gallant for This???

Handles all weather

Old reliable

Great buy

Great little wagon/suv, great value !

Nice car!

Great car for the money - Awesome!

Outlander sport se

Don't believe the "professional" reviews

Great value for money

Reliable, but uninspiring

Peppy enough for me, stylish and nice features.

Don't let the experts fool you, this is the best crossover suv to get

Very Pleased

Good car for the money

mits outlander sport nav system

Fun to Drive!!!  

Inexpensive but has design issues

I LOVE this SUV!!!

Great Crossover, would be better 6 cylinders

first 300 miles

Perfect City Cross Over

Hard to decide if I like it...

Update from previous review

Disappointed

Love this Car

Convinced

Great Little Dependable Car

Easy car to maintain and drive

194K and still runnnin like new....

Brilliant little car

Still going at 226k

Reliable cheap transportation

Amazing car!!!

MITSUBISHI GREAT G4

It's a new car with 12 miles on it

Best bang for your buck!!

I own 2 mirages

Love my NEW G4

Love my 2017 Mirage G4 SE

love my new g4 in wine!

great car

Mitsubishi Lancer O-Z Rally 

Can't help but love and respect this car

Great car

Smooth Move

Maplewood Import

leave em in the dust

supercar

'94 SL5Hundo

owner 94 sl500 just 3 month

MB sl600

SL500 is a dog

Whiplash

Excellent Car!

Great Car Lotsa Fun 

Hot stuff

Style and performance

Amazing to drive & horrific to own

Stay away!

I love my car

2003 Certified Used SL55

It doesn't get any better than this

2007 Some good- some bad

This Is It!

Overall- great luxury sports/touring car

Great Automobile

Fun in Chicago

SL600 - Yes!

Nice.

Best Luxury Roadster/Boulevardier     

One of the greatest cars ever!

great car

2005 SL55 AMG

AWSOME

Nice Ride, but then again it should be

BUY IT!

SL55 

What A Machine

SL 600 

Experienced Mercedes Man

As good as it gets

I expect better

My second SL500  in 2 years

Waste your $100K on something else

Best SL Ever

Awesome

Beautiful car flawed by engine noise

Best and Sexy Convertible 

Not so dream car I thought, AMG (All Money Gone)

It's an awesome AMG!

Not worth the money...

2009 SL 550-Was in love until I wasn't!

Buy a Corvette or Porsche

Dream Car for Drivers

sl550

Great to buy used

SL 500

Love It!!!

SL600

AMG road trip

sl550 saved my life

None better, except for maybe the SL55

Second SL55 AMG

A Balance Between Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde

Stealth Race Car

A great car diminished by a few flaws.

Great Car!

$110,000 LEMON

The Jekel and Hyde of sports cars

Fun Fancy and Frivolous

Dream car

The Perfect Drop Top

Excellent build quality

Can't Hate It

SL500

Sports and luxury combined.

Best GT car you can buy!!!

Great ride

Sweet ride!

Nothing exceed$ like exce$$

They Made It Even Better

SL550 The Fast, the beautiful and the so

Loads of fun drive

Fun in the Sun

Purchaser of Used 2006 SL55 AMG

Elegant Car, Timeless Styling

Acceleration with music

A great step up

The Best SL Yet  

Very Disappointing

Awesome!

Outstanding Mercedes

Adds zest to my commute

Performance, Luxury, Muscle Car all in one

Nice but still unreliable

Yea, it is fun

It's not inexpensive but it's very nice

Dream Car

Sophisticated Supercar

The best car on the market

Redefining driving excitement

Seat Belt problem??

Best Car I've Ever Owned

Extremely Happy

Top of its class!

If you want a headache buy an SL500

It's worth the love/hate aggravation

It should Fly

2004 Mercedes-Benz SL500 - UNRELIABLE

Love this car

New to the fold

LOVE/HATE RELATIONSHIP

CLASSY PERFRORMANCE

Better MPG than you think

A Great Roadster

great car

Does everything well...

A Fine Automobile

Spoiled Rotten

Driving a $90,000.00 Car!!!!

Driving a $90,000.00 Car!!!!

1999 sl 500

SO RIGHT!

Classic Roadster

Classic Mercedes SL500 Still a Great Value

awesome, awesome car!

200 SL500 Silver Arrow - last handbuilt

Mercedes dropped the ball

Timeless Classic...

"Silver Arrow", as good as it gets 

Supercar for Corolla Money!!

Excellent & Fun

Covertible Perfection

Best SL I Have Ever Owned

Poser

Six years makes no difference

Premium Price -Poor Quality?

This would be the best car if it was more reliable

TOTAL NIGHTMARE!!!

Makes a GREAT PLANTER

Never Had Better....BUT

My Retirement Gift 

It's all about appearances.

Known Lemon. Every One of Them. Stay Far Away!

Please, stay away!

Electrical Gremlins Abound

Oh damn its broke again.

POORLY BUILT CAR

about my experience

Life is boring without a Mercedes benz!

Best all around driving automobile!

Bullet Proof

Amazing Vehicle

Someday is Now!

LUXURY 2-SEATER: Convertible limousine

It's so much fun

"The ONE"

GREAT

Amazing

excellent

SL in Germany

Wish I would have gotten one sooner!

Classic open road cruiser!

Exceptional SL600 (R129 series)

The SL experience

Timeless Roadster, Fun for Everyday 

Suprised by Reliability

My SL320

Great Sports Convertible

Terrific

What else can go wrong?

The perfect automobile

Great car for the money

LUV this car

I finally bought my dream car.

10 years of cruising bliss

V-12 SL class

A SUPER AUTOMOBILE

A True German Classic  Roadster...

Love my buggy

Awesome car!

what would you expect 

Love It

not to be missed

SL500 SL1 & Panoramic Roof

Nothing Else Compares, Nothing

Finally, a happy wife.

Great Vaule and Superior Performance

Best Car I've owned

Wow what a dfference

The SL to own right now.

red sl500 sport

Great value - near prefect sports car

Die hard 4

Best Mercedes I have owned

1994 Mercedes-Benz SL - The Greatest

beautiful car

1994 500SL Hard and Convert

The Best Sports Car I Have Ever Had

MB's Finest!

You should own a V12 once in your life!

sl500 is a gem, I will forever own one!

My SL500 is my baby!

1997 Mercedes SL500 with 38,000 miles on

Dream with a smile

Smooth Power, Value and Quality

1997 SL500 SL1 SPORT

19 yrs and going strong

jjeworley33

AS GOOD AS IT GETS!

1st Mercedes SL

Love Her

Buy One

The Best

6 month toy

Bittersweet

Roadster Rules!

Beautiful Car, Ugly Payment

Love Her

Affordable Luxury

One drive won me over

Love my Benz

Great Looks, Great Fun

Too much fun!

FLY WITH ME

Be cautious with this car

Watch The Roof On This Car

Great Car

'99 Mercedes SLK 230 Roadster

Best of the Best

htslk32

Not as Happy

WOW! Still in Love!

Room for Two

SLK32 AMG Rocks!

Love my car

Happy to have a real car

My First Mercedes

Excellent Convertible and Cute too!

Best Car I Ever Had

Luxury...hah!

Nice Little MB

Most fun to drive ever

Hold back

It was a fun experience

Best sports car I ever owned

i love this car

230 SLK

LIVING ON YOUR LAURELS

slk

2001 SLK 230

Fun but has a Dangerous flaw

SLK what a car

Not for the long run

MB SLK 230 - Great car

take it from me.........dont buy one

great car

funbenz

Solid & Stunning

My Experience Owning My First Mercedes

Room for a big guy

Unreliable

Great Car!

Fast, great looking, and safe!

Dream come true

Wheeeee!!!

SLK 230 '04

A future classic

Fun for awhile - but not a great value

fun car with problems

Better But Not Best 

Z4 v SLK

2009 SLK 300

Great around town

100% Owner Satisfaction

Good Choice

More logic than a Porsche

great roadster

What's best for $60-70k

Love it

A Great Little Car

Love the Look

My wife's Dream Car

MBZ SLK 55 AMG

2008 SLK 350

Defect in Radio Mercedes Won't Fix 

A true sleeper which gets much better mileage

Live a little!

Put zing into your life!

Rain back washes into electrical when battery clogged. Hole too small! Defective! 

Best Bang for your Buck!

SLK280

What's not to like?

The Perfect Machine

Just what I wanted.

AMG Cobra!

Wife's car. My mid-life toy.

Perfect Convertible Except...

Cool MB,  SLK350

The Ultimate Performance

Mechanical Nightmare

Perfection

Best Benz I've Ever Owned

Don't buy one!

Horrible quality - always being repaired

Should be sent to the scrap pile

Love at first drive

My dream car

MB surprise

Blast to Drive

Missed the mark

AMG Sport Package

SLK350 Hugs the Road and is Fast!

Superb Automobile

Love it !

Great Change

Fun car to drive

Too many +'s not to buy over Boxster

Sport and Luxury!

Awesome

Love it, Love it!

Boss Benz

Too Hot To Handle

Fun car to drive

My SLK

Great Performance car for daily use

Rocket

 I LOVE MY SLK

Ford 

Car needs work

What Fun

99 SLK

Fun Coupe or Convertible

Fast, Fun Car

2003 SLK230 

Sporty, fun, fast and power to spare!

2003 Mercedes Benz SLK320

No bells or whistles

Raving in  Savannah

daveqmerc

Love That Baby Car!

Burgandy Mercedes with beig interior.  

GREAT CAR

James Bond Car

Great Car After All These Years

Marketing driven not drive dependability

Still Great After Almost 80000 Miles

Excellent Automobile

Nice Drive

SLK55 AMG

The perfect Sports Car

Wow, I love this car!

Funnest Car on the Planet

SLK55AMG

Nice wrapper on a German beer can

Some Problems

Pretty Great Car

Love Love Love It

Road Trip

My First Car

Fun to drive

The Most Underated Roadster

It's Too Much Fun

The perfect car

Just Awesome!

SLK Always being Repaired - Stay Away 

Very Happy

27 MPG in town

my red convertible

2001 SLK230

Good car but small nagging issues.

Great Roadster

I love my SLK

Driving a Dream

Pretty good in general

Aw.. 

Best Lil Convertible in NC

Good Weekend Fun Car

A great car to own and driv

EXCELLENT!!!

RED BULLET

Dream Car for under $60k

2002 Mercedes SLK 320

MB SLK great Car

SLK32 AMG

Beautiful  Lines

Sizzling Car

Just traded this on in.

AWESOME CAR!

My 2000 SLK 230

mercedes

Too Fun

I bought another one just like it

sporty car

Head Turner

Cool little car

Fun Car needs improved quality control 

Devil in Disguise

Slk 230 should you buy one???

Fun car

SLK 230

I love this car

Black Beauty

Fun and Practical

too much fun!

Fun and reliable Mercedes roadster

I luv my bumble bee!

So much fun!

SLK230 Longterm Owner

1999 SLK230

Small, Simple and Fun!

1999 Merecedes SLK230 Kompressor

Fun car, troublesome power top. 5 speed manual.

Is it a Prince or a Frog? Definitely a Prince

SL550 as every day driver

Most Capable Motorcar

SL550 nice and confortable

Great Car,  So So Sound System

Hard decision was the right decision

Great Little Car

A+ for Mitsubishi

Reliablitiy an A+

Mirage

Reliable and won't quit.

Great car.  Bring back the Mirage!

very reliable

Sporty-Looking Economy Car

A reliable car

Reliable

Best Car I EVER Owned!! 

Dependable.

Best 12 passenger van

DTF Light

Sprinter 2012

Definitely would not purchase again

moving abroad

Best Van Available!!

2015 Crew Van

m/b now own's my pile of junk Florida Lemon law

2013 Mercedes Sprinter

High price to pay for annoyance

Sprinter 4x4 Family Hauler

Piece of garbage on wheels...

Piece a crap not a van, Not reliable

Money pit from hell

Sprinter's are nice to look at but.....

complete electrical power loss

Great handling, great lines, great looks!

Loving it! Highly recommended

Drive Me!

Great Car for Wife

Very disappointing

LLM, Our Sprinter

sprinter passenger 4x4

Awesome Van

10 Months old with 25,000 miles - Bought New Cash.

Too darn complex

Love to drive this car

I love my 2013 SLK250

Peppy, fun sports car

Great long-distance cruiser

SLK 55 AMG brute power in a cute sports car

Best Family Van Ever

Excellent Family Van

Worst Investment Ever. Sprinter is a Money Sucker

My SLK300

Don't believe the Auto bloggers, this car is great and NOT a "chick-car"!

MB Quality

SLK 350

Fun to drive

Great little car... BUT major issue found.

Ha I

2016 MB SLK300

Ha I

1995 MIRAGE

Excellent little car!!!

Good Car

The truth of the Mitsu Mirage

Perfect First Car

I Am So Lucky :)

very reliable

Very Pleased 

Mirage?

1998 Mirage DE

good car

Dangerous at all speeds

A Little Work

Great little Zipper

Its great!

Great Mirage, Fun to Drive

My little Black Ride

A car that keeps going....

Classic Coupe

i miss mine

Mirage Heaven

Mirage is a winner!

Mitsubishi 98

Lean, mean and green!

Save money on gas with this Mirage

Fantastic Car!!!

Better than getting a Civic or Corolla

I Hate This Car

I love my Mirage

Love My Car

I LOVE THIS CAR!!!!

So Easy to Drive

Love my Mirage

Love My Mirage!

Most "Honest" car on the market

2015 Mitsubishi Mirage ES w/ Navigation

Best for Buck

After one month with a 2015 Mirage CVT

Rental Car Experience

DONT BUY IF IN SNOWY STATES

Mitsu

One of the worst cars ever

Better than expected!!

09 GTS 2.4l Lancer with 5 spd is AWESOME!

Love my little car!

Environmentalists rejoice!

Quirky and Charming

A modern take on the original VW beetle

Cute!

Powertrain Problems

Problems!

Sporty & Fun

2009 ES Sport 

2009 Lancer GTS reliability

Four Season Sports Car

Lit'l Rally Red ES

In love with this car.

Lancer CVT is really weird

EVO-light

2014 Mirage ES CVT - Gets better with age!

Love my Mirage

I dont understand the bad reviews

Driven this little car through EVERYTHING

Update

Best buy in it's class

My Little Weatherproof Motorcycle

2014 Mitsubishi Mirage

great car for the money

It's NOT your Dads HOT ROD

Rally Red Lancer GTS CVT

Loved at first...

I never thought I'd love a Mitsubishi

Bought in 2008 as new, and it's still drives like new

LOVE it!

Ralliart Experence

Ralliart Vs Evo

Love this car

Don't believe the negative hype....

Loving this lil car

Not a Metro

Hey, for the price???

Great economy car, but should have recall issued.

Pros and Cons

Sleeper

Transmission problem

CVT will be an issue.

Two Mitsubishi family.

Another Mits in the family

I love my Lancer

Great value! 

The Lancer is an excellent car

Great little car, critics aren't always right

Love my 2015 Mirage ES CVT

secound Mitsubishi mirage in the family

The best fuel efficient car around!

I still love my hatchback

Fun to Drive and Dependable!

Awesome Car

Awesome machine

Amazing vehicle

09 Lancer sports

The most fuel saving non hybrid go-kart ever! 

Follow Up On Mirage ES CVT

Perfect for those who just wanna get there CHEAP!

Professional Reviews vs Customer Ratings

Forget the critics...

Amazing car for the price!!!!!

Better than the Pros think

Six Months Later...

Buy it already!

So glad I went with this car!

Nice Car

Everything you need

Overall Solid Car

lancer

6 and counting

Lancer gts manual.

Fun, quality, reliability and great valu

Incredibly reliable, a blast to drive!

Waht a japanese car

Economy vs Comfort and Safety

Mits hits one outa' the park

Awesome Mitsu!

a japanese BMW

2010 Lancer GTS (CVT)

LOVE IT!

Not Bad for the price

Nice Sporty Car

Blocked visibility

great cheap sports coupe

Pretty good car

My Mirage 

Gets you from A to B

Not bad, but nothing to write home about

Commuter's Ride

Mitsubishis best car ever!

Best cheap coupe in the world!!!!

Searched for the best....

test of time

From Myrtle Beach, SC to Oceanside, CA

Mitusbishi ride to thrill

2002 Mitsubishi Mirage LS 

Cheap to high performance

not bad

C'mon, where's the love?

Gerty

14 years of driving this thing

Great gas, engine/timing belt bad

2001 Mitsubishi Mirage ES 4dr Sedan

Would buy another brand new if they re-made these!

Good car

economical and fun

Very reliable

follow up to earlier review

undisputed champ car

Best first car ever

Bloody Amazing!

Underrated and underappreciated

Basic Transportation, Great Quality

Great first car!

Do not buy!!!!

LS coupe

Great Little Car

Great reliable basic transportation

So Far So Good

Great Car

N/A

shwing

Cheapest car I have ever owned

Think twice before buying

My little loveable Mirage!

A Fine Little Car

Great affordable car!!

97 Mirage LS

Daily driver

Been a great car

Great, inexpensive car

My very first car, the Mitsubishi Mirage

a very reliable car

This little car just won't die...

Great commuter

Awesome

could be better

Call it the  GLC - Good Little Car 

Dam good economy car

Overlooked Little Gem

Nice ride

Great little short trip car

97 DE Coupe

great car

cool car!!!

Street show car

"Happy with my Blacky"

Mirage no more....

Excellent Small Car

no problems

2000 Mirage Rating

Excellent Car to Own

The red beauty 

great!

Great little car

Sad to let go

Good car

A not so dream car

Cute but Sensitive to Road Conditions

Lots of Car for Less

Good Car on Used Market

Survived thanks to my Mirage

Can't justify getting rid of it.

Super reliable

It gets you were you want to go

Exceeded Expectations

Long-time owner

yummy

Mirrage

Multi-use with Minimal Maintenance 

I LOVE my Mirage!

1995 Mitsubushi Mirage

Reliable and Economic

Simply the best!

Ok

 I LOVE My Mitsubishi !!!!

Mitsubishi 

Really a good car

STILL GOING STRONG AFTER 16 YEARS

I LOVE my car

it is fine

Cell phone totals my MPG

Awesome fuel economy in a nice little car

Love my little orange nugget!!

The car for me right now

good little  car

Try This Adorable Car for Yourself!

Keep Ignoring the Haters!

*****The little engine that could************

Great MPG

Low cost of operation

Needs Help

Reliable little car

Miss My Mitsu

Go Back to the Drawing Board

Mitsubishi Mirage is Great!

I love my 2017 Mirage!

Great little runabout.

Thanks, Mitsubishi, for a Wisely-Designed Car

The pro reviewers are on drugs!!

Great little runabout.

Great Car

Compact SUV for cheaper price!

AMAZING!!!

Not for off road use

What a Deal! A quality Vehicle

Sharp Looking and Comfortable

Great small SUV

The Best Bang for my Buck

Very Satisfied - Great for Price

A Great Vehicle

New to Outlander

Fun

Outlander

Great value, overlooked SUV

Commuter's SUV

Special Edition means just that.

Mitsu 2008 Multiple Problems

Bad Paint on Mitsubishi Outlander!

Great Buy

Most bang for the buck

Gotta love it!

Only car I have had towed twice

It's a Man cuv !

Value and Excellent driving manners

Very satisfied with my 2nd Outie

A Hidden Gem of a CUV!

Love!

A/C issue not even 24 hours of ownership

Finally

First SUV

The truth

Love my Outlander

interior  lighting

Not your cookie cutter small SUV

Not bad!

Horrible No Confidence

So Far, So Good

First SUV after 2-doors coupe'  

One of the best SUV's you can buy!

BUYERS BEWARE!!!

So Far So Good, Could Be Better 
1st Mitsubishi, 1st 4-cylinder...won't be my last

AWESOME SUV

4WD Gas saver lot of fun

Not changing anytime soOn

Not a cookie cutter SUV 

Great value, great vehicle!!

Great Downsize Vehicle

Mitsubishi Sucks

2011 Outlander GT

Best family CUB

Reliable, family oriented, fun

Came back for another one

2012 Outlander GT

Nothing fancy, but a serious bang for your buck!

Pretty solid

A vehicle to pass down the family

Fun CUV, best bang for the buck

Not a bad car!

Stay Away From Mitsubishi

Bad front end

A great value purchase

Fantastic CUV

Much better than Ford Edge

Toothless from How to Train Your Dragon

Extremely disapointed

Nice in some areas, but with important shortcomings

Great Value, Great Vehicle!

Decent Value

2012 Mitsubishi Outlander GT

CVT sucks

Great Little SUV!

No brainer

Suprising vehicle

BEST JAPANESE SUV

1st Mitsubishi SUV- Loving it!

Good value if you don't drive a lot

Great Vehicle

The Right Car

where are all the outlanders?

Highly Suggested Buy

Great Overall SUV

4 years and no issues

Great Car

2008 xls outlander

Great Car exactly what I was looking for

Happy customer

Great and reliable SUV

OK Overall, But 3 Warranty Visits in 1yr

Love Everything About It!

Top notch on everything

Ladybug

Why are there not more?

Best  Small/med. size SUV out there!!

Very Happy Customer

More People Should Check This CUV Out

Problems after Problems after Problems

It's Different

Great compact SUV and great value!

It's Great

Great value for your money!

the jousting lancer

great little car

A Must Buy!

I Love It!

Wowed and Thrilled!

Good value

Good Stuff

'07 Outlander Exceeds Expectations

This is a Home Run for Mitsubishi

Packed with features, and a blast to drive

Underrated in My Book

It's Been a Fun Vehicle So Far!

Reliable Reliable Reliable !!!

Sporty Crossover

This truck is awesome!

Very Reliable SUV

Good SUV

Everthing I was searching for!

Mitsubishi Outlander Rocks

Mitsubishi Outlander Lease Experience

Tops all small suvs

Just bought it

Best Bang for the Buck

Bang for the Buck!

Perfect for Our Young Family!

Wow!

A Lot of Car for a Little Money

great alternative to nissan leaf

1500 Kilometers and loving every minute of it

A used one is the greatest secret in cars.

Best kept secret in the USA electric car market

Not the only one in town anymore

After 2 weeks and 140 miles

Can you tell I like my car?

I'm in LOVE!

The EV technology is ready

Great little car

FANTASTIC Car

I absolutely loved the 06 Outlander!

The car survived the college student but not the accident

Young Family Car

Fun to drive, lot of features vehicle.

2006 Outlander AWD

Love This Car! Great Price and No Hassle

Great deal & value for all the extras

Love my Lancer

2013 Lancer SE AWC

Great and fun car!

It is average, just having issues

6 months into owning a 2016 iMiEV

Compare: what do you want?

The perfect every day carŠfun to drive!

Between the Corolla and the Camry...Perfect

I love my lancer!

Big Mistake

Amazing little car

awesome SUV,dont belive the so called experts!

A hidden jem

Great Value

Exactly what I was looking for in a low-cost daily

The Best Car I Ever Had

Smooth

Great value for money - ignore the expert reviews

Real Review

In a segment by itself

Have 10,000 miles on it!

more than I expected in every way !

Underated

Great value & features

A hidden gem

Don't Believe this so called expert review!

great crossover worth repeating

WOW!

Four months after buying and still loving it

Take another look.

Love this SUV

GREAT VALUE AT A REASONABLE PRICE!

The 2016 Highlander SEL is well worth a look

Pleasantly surprised , best value for money

Great value, nice little suv

Outlander

Base with a manual transmission is the way to go!

Underappreciated little SUV

Better than expected

Great value for the buck

Recently bought an Outlander Sport

For the price nothing competes

WOW! 2015 Outlander Sport GT one year later

Know how to use it

Not all SUV's are the same !!!

best value in this category

Honest Little Family Car

I like it.

1.5 years and 28k miles

Horrific A/C, Cooling; Poor Delivery

Pleasantly surprised !!

Should have never bought this

Great SUV

Outlandish should get more respect

Perfect Crossover ~ Perfect Price

Mitsubishi Outlander 2015

Awesomeness on 4 wheels

Best CUV Value in it's class, hands down-Should have its own class.

I like this car but performance is deceving

Shouldn't have bought this SUV

Modestly Mitsubishi

POOR EXHAUST

Great Buy

Outlander ES Base 4 cyl

2014 Mitsubishi Outlander SE Great Value

2014 Mitsubishi Outlander GT

A great small crossover suv

V6 Outlander is Amazing

Nice Ride, Satisfied!!

L.O.V.E.

Try it you'll like it

Outlander Gt Value

Luxurious, powerful but inexpensive SUV

Exceptional Value

Highly Satisfied

Read actual consumer reviews!

The All Wheel Drive Is What it's All About

Don't be fooled by "expert" reviews! GREAT CAR!

Proffessionals are wrong!

Love my Mitsubishi!!!

Diamond in the Rough

Wonderful car and fantastic value

40k driven in a year, and still rocking it!

Great Value

Don't Listen to the "Experts" - Great Little SUV

Great gas mileage

One month real review 

Awesome vehicle

Outlander Sport Obsessed!

Massively underrated

Premie Senior Dream

UNDER RATED GEM !

Great Little SUV!!

Solid Basic Transportation with Benefits

5 speed stick 2014 Outlander Sport ROCKS!

Mitsu

Excelent

The best for your money

Chick car

Great New Car

Top ten worst car in 2011

Value for Money

DON'T BELIEVE THE ''EXPERTS'' !

Better than expected

Love my Mitsu!!!

New Outlander Sport GT

Something to think about.

I'm glad I didn't trust Edmunds review

I've put the miles on my 2012 Outlander Sport 4x4!

Freshest crossover on the road

Great Economical Choice!!!

Best value compact SUV

It looks better than it is

Love it!

Nice, HighTech SUV for a great price

A fun city car

perfect after the "Mom Van" is no longer needed!

Id buy a Mitsubishi

Dependable and Trouble Free

Shoulda bought a Subaru

Mitsubishi deserves to fail

1,000 Mile Review

Great Value-Excellent Reliability

So far, great car!

Mitsubishi

Fuel Economy Misleading

Great SUV

I own two outlander sports loaded

Wishing for more

So upset about the gas mileage - any tips?

5 spd manual transmission

Outlander excellent, auto media reviews are biased

Great Improvements from the previous year model!

Tommy's Red Rider Outlander GT

Better than Reviewed

Best Bang for Your Buck

More Than Good Enough

Objective review, I won this car in a drawing.

Hidden Gem

Best compact suv

Why aren't there more of these on the road??

Exceeding my expectations....A lot.

Best kept secret!

Great find!

So Far Very Very Good

Above all else

Very nice car but...

CDI-GL

Big Let down

Still Have One of the First and Love It

2007 Mercedes-Benz GL-Class-320 CDI 4Dr

Fun Car

Much Better than the ML!

The Only SUV for a Single Dad

SUV from Utopia

Overall Pleased

Pathetic

Good looks - Inferior Quality Electronic

GL320-LEMON

OK vehicle but  stupid option packages

Not so happy with my GL450

GL450

In love with my GL

Love this vehicle!

Excellent Car!

In Love with my GL 320 CDI

A Zippy Little Dream Car

Best vehicle I've owned, hands down!

1K mile review

What could be better!

Performance Multi-tasker

small things make a difference

Love It

Awesome!

Perfect truck but poor technology

AMG Rocks This Car

its a beauty and quite a great price

Love the GLA

Front CV joint problem

Steering Wheel Module

My first Benz!  I love it!!!

Very Satisfied

Electronics are ridiculous!

Not thrilled

Fun crossover/hatchback but not an SUV.

GLA45 one of the fastest CUV ever, if not the fastest!

A delightful car

One week in but I love it. 

This car is amazing

Pull the trigger

Great car

Gosh, I love this car!

95 E-class Diesel

More than I expected.

As good as it gets.

Great car - when it isn't broken

Mercedes E500

Better Than New

Dependable discrete quality

Just wow!

Spruce Green E320

If you can find one, buy it

Rides like a new car with 200K on the clock

Well, it was fun while it lasted.

Wow

E300D

Best used car for the money!

EXCELLENT CAR

e320 convertible

Almost 280k miles on beach hauler

Still Great at 15

The Big E

World Class Sedan

E320 Convertible

Bullet Proof 

Driving my  Sun-Roofed Bank Vault

EXCELLENT CAR

For a work car this thing rocks

Instant Classic

e320 cabriolet

1994 Mercedes E320

Unique

11 Years and still like new

Simply Perfect

Excellent Vehicle

Is it a benz or a Hyundai???

Bullet Proof

Has bad side too

Love It!

Home Run

Choose wisely, and you'll be rewarded.

My kid flipped my E300D

Great car bought at the wrong time.

Great Car, Great Price

Class for the Cash!

S-class on stilts

GL450 Falling apart at 65K miles

What a SUV Should Be

Worst car experience

Really enjoy it!!

Nice at first, but...

It has grown on me.

Nice looking but mechanical issues

What a car

Very satisfied

MB styling at its best

Shockingly Underwhelmed

My Dream Car!

More fun than I expected

Just Being Honest

Glad I finally stepped up and purchased!

Best Car I've owned or driven

Great 4 Door Coupe

Much better

2007 CLS 550

Stylish Sedan 

Owner CLS 500

Dont buy one you will regret Ray Catin

Awesome

CLS 55

Ballin with Balls!

30 year Benz driver rates this one 
CLS 63 AMG

The Faster You Go, The Better It Feels

Concens with engine

Dream Car

One of the most gorgeous cars ever!

Wow, I love my car

Best car

My dream Car

I Traded  06 Porsche 911S for CLS 63 AMG

Fine, fine machine!

Love this 2009 CLS550C!

Definitely a Home Run

"BENZ BELIEVER"

Wow!

Best car we ever owned

Good for the family, too!

CLS550

2007 Mercedes CLS550

Performance and Looks! CLS 550 Review

CLS 550 '07

I LOVE THIS CAR

Impressive CLS550C

Perfect!

Update: True Exotic Mercedes Benz AMG

Fun to drive sports sedan

The True Exotic Mercedes Benz AMG

Slick-looking luxury, fun and safety

Awesome

Not too Happy

Best looking car on the road and more

A terrific sports sedan

CLS Mercedes

This is it

3 and a half years later

Skin deep beauty

Beauty is only skin deep. Prototype woes

3 Irritating Things, but I Love the Car

So Disappointed

Great 2nd owner car

Bought cls 500

Need a Slush Fund to own this one!

Check your sanity before you buy

Best for tall people

Oil leak causes stirring wheel to lock

 I traded my 2007 GL450 for '08 GL550

I think we got a lemon

Poor Reliability

Awesome

Should I "passed" on this one!

Save your money

A Real Dog

Mercedes GL 320 CDI

Towing beast, embarrasses many pick up trucks, absolute serenity  

It's not that bad if you're previous car was a Range Rover:)

2013 was a very Bad Year, and 2015 wasn't good.

Dissapointment

Expensive Lesson

This car is terrible

What you need to Know

Change that suspension

It's the road trip king

great car, except for poor information system

Its an ok vehicle

FUN DRIVE

Awesome Vehicle!!!

What a disappointment!!!

So far so good

Luxury suv with goods, bad's and ugly's

Worst Car I Owned

LOVE my GLE!

Great Vehicle Benz.

Not sporty enough, rough ride

under power, rough suspension

Nice Ride

Five stars for this outstanding machine

Most comfortable ride Ive ever had

Best luxury SUV.

2017 GLE 350

Apps

New GLE

Good overall car

Leasing is a bad deal!

Great balance between performance and luxury

GLE 350 4matic engine seized

GLE350 - The Quirks

Starship Enterprise

Best vehicle I've ever owned

Traded my E350 for this GLE350.  Quite satisfied.

The 'New ML' -Newer is not always Better

Love my GLE350!

Dang Nice Ride

Stylish, Solid, Stable

Safe and Luxirious

First Benz

Screeching Brakes - buyers beware

Very nice package

hertzdav

Surprisingly fun little SUV

Love this car!

First SUV ever!

Varoom!

Some great,, some terrible

A+ Mercedes

Great CUV/SUV

Love this SUV.

2017 GLC - Excellent Mid Size SUV

Great luxury SUV with some minor refinement issues

Classy, Sporty, Quiet Ride = Jack Pot MB

I finally found THE PERFECT CAR

So far so great!

Disappointed

Small Luxury SUV that Lives up to its Name!

Father's day Gift

Major brake issues no replacement parts for months

Love my new GLC

MY Mercedes is an embarrassment

Still In Love With This Car After 1-Year of Owners

Deceptive advertising

First Mercedes

Taming the Beast

Great car but missing a few things.

CLS 550 4 Matic

Spots performance

best sedan/coupe I've driven

Love The Car 2013 CLS550

Proud owner of '13 CLS 550

Beautiful but a little fragile

Purchase mistake

CLS400  CAR I EVER OWNED

Love this car!

Chinese parts

My Dream Car

Without qualification of any kind it is absolutely the best car I have ever owned.  

CLS 550s

Bought Used CPO 2012 CLS63 Perf Model Jan 2016

CLS 550 4 Matic AMG

Hold on to your ankles

Best Car I have Ever Owned

Emotionally engaging, visually pleasing, and viscerally stunning

One of the Best Latest Efforts From Benz

New level Benzing

Smartly Delivers Mutually Exclusive Qualities 

Better and Worse than my '07

don't bother

mercedes reliabilty

What a workhorse

Great cross country car

Bad MBZusa service and warranty

Exceeds Expectations

my 1997 300 series mercedes benz sedan

Best Car Ever

STAY AWAY

1997 E420 is Junk

E420 Review

1997 mercedees E320

Get a good Pre-Purchase inspection

My experience w/ E320

230K, and wont stop!

Sad state of MB

Not buying MB again any time soon

Amazing quality

High quality

Good all around Wagon

Not the same MB of old

Great engine and transmission surrounded by junk

Ride is great.  Reliability is horrid.

2000 E320 SW

Looks Can Be Decieving

Glad it's gone

Elegant, subtle, practical, fun, solid, reliable.

Electrical Nightmare

I am loving it.

Simply the Best

Ten years with my E320.

97 e320 awsome car

Fuel System Nightmare

Great Ride

One of the Best Cars Ever Owned!

Love my car when it works

one year into owning...never again

Will Never Buy MB Again! MB=German Lemon

More Chrysler than Mercedes

Helpful info if you buy E500

Unreliable

L e m o n !!!!

E320 Review

Built to Cost You Money

Near perfection

Luxurious yes, but it's no BMW

Geaux Mercedes!

Have to get rid of this one.

MY MACHINE TROUBLE FREE

My Benz

Every Car should be a Diesel

Great car when not being repaired

Great car. But poor engine quality

E - Class (by itseslf)

Frustrated long time MB owner!

The 2007 E550 is a beast

2007 Mercedes-Benz E-Class E350 Avant-Garde Sport

Shame on you Mercedes

It is far faster and better than 530i

It's not a BMW

hopeless mercedes benz

Questionable Build Quality on BlueTec

Improvement over the 2008 E350

Solid, reliable

2009 E350 4Matic Sport

Nice Car but only buy CPO buying used.

This car is awesome

Shame on you Mercedes

An amazing ride, an amazing vehicle!

38MPG highway

Fun to Drive

A Really Sleek Touring Coupe

HappyCamper

Good car

1st year in the shop over 2 months

Good not Great

not reliable

No more good Mercedes

Love My New Mercedes-Benz

A Bird in the hand is ...

AWESOME!

Perfection Is A Must Have.


Getting closer to perfect

2010 E350 4Matic Sports Sedan

Better Then All The Rest

Best Merc 

ABS Pump noise issues

Mechanical Mess

Love this car!

Unbelievable car! MB E350 Coupe P2 ++

Perfect

If there is a more expensive POC I want to hear

Great car

engine racket on start up

Excellent value for a Drop-top Benz

OUTSTANDING IMPROVEMENT

Mercedes Misses the Mark -  Very Poor Technology

First Mercedes after retirement.

Never thought I'd leave Lexus......

OK performance, Poor interior material quality

They Keep Getting Better and Better....

Awesome Ride

MB just keep getting better and better

E350 2011

Really like my E350 Sport

Great luxury can that also handles well

Finally got the car we have ALWAYS wanted......

This Car  still Rocks!

They just keep making them better

2012 E350 Sport

I got a Lemon Mercedes

I fell in love with this coupe.

The E550 Coupe is sweet!

Rebuilt engin at 10,000 miles

Just Had To Get It!

6th Mercedes - Very Impressed

Almost Awesome

E350 Blue Tec

The new E Class has it all

Nearly perfect convertible

The ultimate car for a road trip.

Nice Car

Highly impressed after 12,000 miles

Great Car

Not Quite Great

Nice but could use some refinements

Initial problems resolved - awesome vehicle

Gorgeous Ride and Car

2 of the happiest days of my life

Navigation and service

Bad wheel quality on MB E350

Bravo Mercedes-Benz!

Beautiful car!

MASTERPIECE OF AUTOMOTIVE ART

Best Car We Have Ever Puchased

Very Happy to be BACK to MB

The best I've owned

the worst car i have owned

The best!

Extraordinary Automobile!

A very solid car but horrible nav system

The total package

2009 E350 RWD Review

Vinyl vs Leather

not practical

Almost Perfect

Wow. What a great Car

Best Mercedes I've ever owned.

Sleeper - you won't see another

"Finest engineering MB car...."

Mercedes E-350 2008 Accident

Perfect car !!!

320 Bluetec

Best Car I have Ever Owned!

Fantastic vehicle

Rapid Depreciation

Buy the car, forget the GPS

BMW Fan Get His Mercedes

CLASSY

27 minimimum MPG around town

The Greatest Car I Have Ever Owned

Second CDI and loving it

Luxury feels good

Wonderful car with one problem so far

2004 E320 SPORT

E 500

Worst vehicle  

Long rule the Sport-Lux Wagon

He's still going strong!

Drive all day!

Merry Christmas,not.

The Right  Decison Afterall

WOW

Best Mercedes I've Owned!

Never again!

E-500 Wagon tires

Great car, poor reliability

The "Water Buffalo" Just Keeps Going Effortlessly

Starting to rethink this purchase

No regrets

Transmission Problems at 104,000 miles!

This should not happen to Mercedes

Best vehicle in class

Bluetec's the way to go

Lifetime ride, safety, comfort.

Faulty Electrical

Car of my Dreams with Perpetual Maintenance!

Excellent second car

11years a slave !

121,000 miles later...

Mercedes should be ashamed of their internal build quality

Great Wagon but the Transmission.

Not worth the $$$$

Does not live up to its name

Oil pump problems

Great car

Love this car

Mercedes does NOT stand behind their products

Love my car

The Best E Class I've had yet

Best car I've ever owned

2005 E320 CDI

Economy With Class

Incredible car

Great Car!  Solid & Built to Last

Mercedes Diesel is Great

Bad transmission for 2006 4matic

7-speed transmission problems

You had me with the test drive

Super car

Change your transmission oil!

2005 E320 CDI Review

You've gotta love it!

Looks good, poor reliability

2005 E320 4matic Awesome  Ride

Teutonic Elegance.....but will it last?

Car Performance

Works for me

My E500 AWD 

Most Fun to Drive (Still is.)

The true family hauler!

Outstanding automobile

A Great Ride So Far

Best car I have ever owned!

Poorly design and manufactured vehicle 

Electrical Nightmare

3 years later

Great car for a long time

Great car but not cheap to own

Olden, but Golden - Bought it with 156,000 Miles

11 year old E320 Avantguarde

Saved my Life

Always Will 

Worst time for Mercedes?

E55 autobahn Power!!!!

MY E55

So Glad I Bought This Car

2002 Benz E320 Best Value

AMG e55 ( The eye catcher )

Nothing like it!

unidentify noise

If you like the shop

First Luxury Vehicle

classic

Who Needs An SUV?

Elegant traveling for the family

2002 Mercedes E 320 w/Elegance Package

Outstanding vehicle

Mercedes Benz, a complete waste of money

Great Car

Good Car - Could Use Some Improvements

My Batmobile

Solid German tank; won't let you down

Runs and handles as new

This is not your parents car

Well built tank

E320

Great Car Twelve Years Later

Fun to drive but quality is poor

Best Car Ever

I'd Buy Another - It's Been Very Good

Just an all great luxury sedan

Cat Food Cans

Best Kept Secret

MB 

E-Class

Good Bad Ugly

e320 4m

Great Car

E 320  from my experience

Whale Tail...

Excellent car!

It's old but I  love it!

Too familiar with the service department

Nice car, but too much rust

E430 Sport

Hard to Replace

2001 E320 Mercedes sedan

E430 Sport 

AN EXCELLENT MIDSIZE MOTORCAR

1998 MB

The best  car

Awesome!

Terribly Unreliable

WARNING! Bad Engineering ahead

Update From a Year Ago

I am happy

Solid Car

The worest Mercedes-Benz I ever had 

Very Nice Car

This is it for me!

1998 Mercedes 320 E 

My 5th Mercedes, still good, not best.

Joy to drive, but painful to service.

What an amazing car!!!!

E320 at 195,000 miles

Very Low Maintance

UnderRated

Mercedes Money Pit

Not As Good As It Should Be

love the E class 320

The best or nothing?

1999 E320 Wagon

Could not be better

315K and Going Strong

Rust

Well, If You Must Know....

Solid choice

German Beast

last of the bank vault Benzs

First Car

Crossing 275k

It Just Keeps on Ticking!

This Car is Great - If you know what to Buy!

excellent car in every way

One of the finest on the road

Disappointing Quality

Best Vehicle Around

It is the best ever

Christmas tree

Love car, HATE the electrical problems!!

Great Ride!

The Good, The Bad, & The Ugly

The deisel that wasn't

Fantastic car

Perfect for the aspiring VP

134k Miles and counting!

1997 E300 Last Best Mercedes built

last of a dying breed

Easy to repair.. and you better be good at it.

My first MB and most likely the last!

Best Car I've Ever Owned

 Very reliable! 24.5MPG @ 245K Miles

Excellent Automobile

Good reliability

BENZIE 210

The best selling Mercedes!

wish I had read here

Electronic Nightmare

CRAP

Best in Class

Do Not Consider

Love it!

Best Luxury Sedan You Can Buy

Up your technology game...

Buyer Beware - Please read

E300 was not ready for production.

E300 fit for taxis in Europe not a luxury vehicle

2017 Mercedes Benz E300

Nice car with lots of bells and whistles

luxury

Amazing car and deal!

Great Driving E43

Noisy and transmission issue

I loved my Mercedes E350, but my E300 is unsafe

love my new e class

Luxury abound but underpowered

Traded in a 2014 E350 and it's an upgrade.

Avoiding Pot Holes and Manhole Covers

Not for a everyday car...WEEKEND car ONLY!

Good experience driving 2016 MB E350 4Matic

Outstanding Value

I lots of go for little dough

smart and sporty car

Diesel for me

E Coupe

Mercedes E350 2016

A sturdy German Car, but overcomplicated controls

Same ole Same ole

2016 E63 Review

Air Conditioning Issue Driving Me Crazy!

1st New Car in 40 Years

Overall, a Great Car to Drive

Just drove 2000 miles

2016 E400

2016 E350 4MATIC

wraps you in luxury and safety

WHAT  A CAR MBZ E350

Mercedes, now: bad cars, bad service. Take it from a customer of 15+ years

My 2013 Benz E350

2013 E550 - Best car I have ever owned

Solid and Fun

great

Conquer Everything

G500

All- Around Car

Great time to buy - pricing is excellent

E400 Hybrid a great car

Stay away from MB

BEST DESIGNED AND BUILT E 350 SPORT SEDAN TO DATE

Great car with some minor setbacks

excellent

G-500 Good Buy

I love this vehicle!

Mercedes Benz G Wagon

sweeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeet

ok care for the money

Hot ride

Bad News

pirus

Civilian Version of German Humvee

THIS IS A TRUCK

G wagen is best

perfect

G-Wagon

Best car on the road

Love this E250 Luxury model

My 550 4 Matic

New to MB, no longer a Caddy fan.

Opinion not changed on MB reputation

Value tanked

Best SUV available today

fun to drive

AWESOME SUV.

Bought It  Love It

WOW

excellent vehicle

LOVE LOVE LOVE OUR G

I'll keep itfor 20 years!

Great truck - Bad service

I love my car!

OH MY HECK!!!!!

It's a truck - not a luxury SUV

GREAT G500

the last industrial grade vehicle

THE RIGHT STUFF

g500 solid and safe

Worth every penny

2005 G 55 K

G500 at 10,000 mi. 5 mos.old

Get something else instead

A Tank

Amazing 

Heavy Duty Fagility

Rolls Royce of 4x4s

The Best

Great car

Silver Monster

If you want a tank, here's your baby

Canadian Military's Finest

2005 Grand Edition G55

Mercedes Saved The Best For The Last

G-Wagon

shaspa

End of the world car

Military vehicle

G Class Rules

2005 - G500 Grand Edition

2005 G55

Porsche to G wagon

G55 is a solid luxury SUV

It owns the road

Update to previous review

g-500

tough truck

Best

weeee

3 Year Look Back

Don't compare this vehicle to others

Awesome SUV

FABULOUS

G class=1st class

g55

None

I LOVE my 2015 E250 Sport

Beautiful Car

One of the best mb on the market

Amazing Car

Understated elegance yet sporty

E350

MERCEDES E 400 SPORT SEDAN: PURE PERFECTION!!!

G500 Lemon

Buy anything but...

Unsafe at any speed

Nothing like it

True 4 wheel power

First MB

My 2014 E350 Sedan Sport not a quality machine

4 cylinder luxury vehicle

Wagon Bliss

Impressions after 3 months

My 2014 E350 Coupe

A sophisticated 1969 GTO

2014 E550 Cabriolet

Wow!

So far so good

Never again....back to Lexus

Great car...so far

My 7th E350 Sport Sedan

Overrated

2013 E350 Harman Kardon weak bass

E350 4MATIC Sport

Not worth the extra cost of owning a BluTech 

Could Be Greatly Improved!

Truly a great vehicle

2013 is a great car

Balance shaft - MBZ does not stand behind

Not what I expected from MB

Love my 2013 E350

Good but could be great if they could FIX MY CAR

Great Car !  Mercedes E350 Coupe 4 Matic Sport

roadrunner

VERY IMPRESSED SO FAR

Pluses and minuses

Very nice car

Important stuff you must you know

Gettin' the Job Done!

infamous G wagon

Awesome Power and Looks

maximus

My Third G-Wagon

Functional not plush

A spectacular example of function over form

Huge & Efficient

Nice little Benz two seater

First Mercedes, not the last

The Best !!!!!!!!!!

Solid. Over-engineered and an investment

Not an SUV guy and I LOVE it!

I love it!

Great SUV

LOVE THIS CAR!!!!

Excellent SUV

Amazing Car

550 GL

Great SUV

great suv

Diesel Fun

American All-Star

Dont buy used

Gl550 ccc

Seduced by Styling

Rock Solid So Far

Better have a warranty

Delightful Improvements

What a Luxury SUV Should Be

Worst vehicle ever! Better get real good warranty!

Goodbye Audi

Grey Ghost aka GL450

Trouble some vehicle

Very nearly perfect

Do it if you can!

Worst vehicle I've ever owned!

Great ride when it's not in the shop

A Diesel All the Way

Flawless

GL-350 - Worst Can of my life !

The worst car I have ever owned.

Not sure why MB is making such a bad car

Worst experience ever

Mercedesnot the quality people have come to expect

Great riding vehicle, keep your checkbook close by

New to MB

Love/Hate Heartbreak

Nice, but costly to maintain

2011 GL 350 Bluetec

Continuous Costly Maintenance

Bullet proof

Good SUV

2009 G-CLASS

A Beautiful Tank on the outside, Harsh on the inside

Overrated car

Doberman transportation

Great luxury value

GLC 300

GLC 300 Review

Fantastic SUV

Dream Car Does Not Disappoint

GLC300

Our first Mercedes-Benz

Buzzing noise

Very good handling and comfortable ride

GL63 AMG Money Pit

Love at first sight!

Extremely slow parts delivery

a piece Junk ! Do not buy it !!!

Impluse buy GL 450 - 4 years later

Amazingly smooth ride, love the engine noise

"Nothing but the best" what a joke

You like the GL550, it's garbage

Gl is not an SUV!

High Quality and Technology

Great vehicle just not for us

My First benz

Never want to sell it!

Best Car Purchase Ever

I love my C220

My Worst Nightmare

drive

I Like This Mercedes

problems at 80k

Great Car for the Price!

Good car! C280 sport

'95 C280, tough to rate

Bi-polar Benz

Still Ticking and taking a licking

Used car bargain

Cute Baby Benz

dissapointed

Worth the wait!

Lots of Bang for the Buck

Built like a rock...

Top-Notch Class!

94 c-220

Horrible car

Disappointing C280

One of my favorite cars ever.

my car's rating

BE AWARE mercedes is a disappointment. big mistake.

Love My C-class

150,000 and just like new

Lasting Luxury

You have to drive it to understand

It's like a child...

My '94 220 C Class Mercedes Benz

Mistaken

Tired of Repairing

Good used vehicle

Worst Car EVER 

Excellent car to buy

Great Car! So Luxurious!

Decent Car for the $$$

beautiful!!!!!!

9 yrs of ownership

'97 C280 Sport - An excellent buy

Good News

Comments of my 1997 C230

Best C-Class

Love my car, hate the maintenance.

Safe

Great when the Check Engine Light isn't on

'97 C280

Baby Benz

She's been great for us! 

OK CAR

Problems, problems, followed by 10 grand

Sa-weet Ride!

Still love it

Love this little car!

Seduced by the shining star

Good times don't last.

Honest  C230 Coupe Review

It's ok, but a MERCEDEZ should be great.

Love this car

I can't even Lie about it..

Very satisfied

Horrible car

Benz beats all

Diamond Black C55

C320 4Matic

Awesome Car-Mercedes C320 4-Matic '05

Great Car

Great car

Wow!

Not too bad...

Best Car I've ever owned!

Great Car with exceptional balance!

Best yet

Drive to believe it

Best Graduation Gift ever

Great car

Excellent C230

High Mileage wonder

A Tiger on the Road

Great car but w/typical euro bugs

2005 C240 4matic

2005 C230 Kompressor

Unbelievable car

Best Car I Ever Won!

Great car!!

The ultimate lemon

c coupe 230 compressor hatch

Best value in the brand

Where's your C240 Manufactured??

C230 Sports Coupe is fun to drive

You've been warned! Don't buy it!

I LOVE this car!

REPEATED COSTLY REPAIRS - NIGHTMARE

True sportwagon

ABSOLUTE LEMON

Mercedes says car is 10 years old, junk it,dealer serviced since day 1

Not worth it

Nice Ride!

Just Crashed and survived

Nothing but problems

Awesome car

There's nothing like owning one!

My Son's FIRST Car

Reliable MB

Bought used C240 4matic

C230 Kompressor Sport - Just love this Car!

MBZ C240 4 matic:  Great Snow Car

Love It!

Mercedes C230 Coupe

This is one terrific car!

Great Car all around!!!

Best car I've ever owned!

It saved my life

Fun little sedan - but ...

Great Commuter

LOOOVE IT, AMG FOR LIFE!!

Disappointed

It's The Bomb

Unbelievable

A Love/Hate Relationship

Almost a 10

Certified pre-owned, what a great car...

Worst nighmare please read!

Never gets old!

Two Thumbs Way Up

Mercedes is not worth the money

Great Car +200,000 mileage - Seattle,WA

1997 C230

C230 Bag for not much Buck

worth to keep

Love every thing about it

Geat Car For The Money

Disappointed

2001 C320 Sport sedan

Over-engineered cars are not reliable

Never Again!!!!!

Mercedes Benz C240 (6M)

Form over Function

With the good, comes the bad

Does not meet expectations

Frequent Expensive Repairs

So much hope

The C240 is Best In Class

A luxury sedan that stands up to time

Safe Car

Great Little Gas Saver

Run away from buying a MB

Great but why latent design defects?

Very solid car

Great car

Best Used Car for the Money

Love My Car!

Believe it!

Love-Hate this car

WORST PURCHASE EVER

Great Car ... For the price paid

Excellent road car, poor reliabilty

You'll never want to get out of this car

Great Liitle Benz

Der Kompressor

Problems and problems

One of M-B's best cars

Expensive to Own

Mercedes is likely the worst car company to deal with for a bad vehicle

C230 best value in it's class

Still going... and going.... and going..

Very satisfied after 9 years

C280

Fun to drive but get ready to $$$

2002 C230 Kompressor /Coupe

Best made and Handling compact?Hot!

Great Entry Benz!!!!

Really good car

Saved My Life

My Loyal Companion

Far from Fahrvergn𧥮

Wish I could give this a good rating

My C280

$0.10/mile car

The Car-1998 Mercedes Benz C230 

Still a nice car at 14 years old

Ole Reliable

16 years later still a good car

do not recommend

Great purr

Going on my 5th MBZ

10 years of happy ownership

Excellent Little Car

Great car

Good Car

 c230 1999 

c 280

Best Car I've ever owned!

Pocket Rocket...But Still a Benz

Car of a lifetime

Disappointment

Very disappoited.

Fun, Quick & Classy

All-Around Great Car

Everlasting

Are you kidding me! A C280 the best?  YES!

Never missed a beat

Bought in the states, picked up in Germany

Problems with the nick nacks & Many More

Outdated and overrated

The best  

Wasted a lot of money

Glad To Own It!

An excellent economic german luxury car

Not too shabby

Disappointment

1996 C Class

Benz' Rules!

Perfectly Good Cheap Car

Decent Value

Will not wear out

It Saved My Life

2000 Mercedes C280 Sport

not the best built mercedes

Economical car, but weak horsepower

Went for looks

Time To Retire Her 214,000 Later

One of the Family

Great vehicle

C Stands for Crappy/Cheap

One of the best I've owned

great car

C280 Good Value

C220

19 In My Benz-O

Killed by a Deer

A solid, reliable & comfortable car

WHY DID I BUY THIS CAR

cla 250 4matic 

Great buy-looks, and it's a Benz

Hyped

Excellent Car, exceeds my expectations! 

MB CLA250 AWD

The AMG working people can afford

Awesome

Great New Technology & MB-AMG Excellence

Great Car

Mercedes-Benz hits a home run with the CLA

Pleased! Very!

So Far So Good

Wish I Had Known

Great car

best of all worlds

Danger! Danger!

Fantastic Car

It's a Benz - Three years on we still love it!

4 YEARS GOING STRONG !!!!!!!!!!!!!

Amazing car for the money

Much more fun than expected...

Best Compact Luxary Car in its Class.

Beautiful Styling, Great Safety Features, Moderate Performance

A Brilliant Car!  We love it, but not for everyone. . . 

Beautiful on the outside, junk on the inside!

Not a Mercedes Guy..

Too Good 2 Be True

.cla250 is a girl car

Would never buy again

Good car but can be further bettered

One-Month In, and No (Major) Regrets

5 weeks and going strong

It just needs a more refined drive

3 months old 8k miles and needs new engine

I love everything about driving this car!!!

Next generation MB is great.

If you don't know what to with $20,000 buy a MB.

Attractive Car but with minor flaws

Review

Perfect car for me

2nd CLA

Great Car... Strange Standard Features.

First time lease

Nice design particulary the front side.

Best full size SUV I've driven so far

Love it's many new functions .

First Benz.... Might be Last Benz

Excellent 7 seat luxury SUV with nice & improved features

in the shop every other week

GL550, multitude of small problems undermines confidence in the brand

Very Poor Electonics Undermine Reliability...

Fun to Drive, lots of improvements

You will think this is SUV is awesome if you haven't driven a lexus ever...

Mercedes 2014 Gl 450 -- sweet!

2014 GL450

Dreams do come True *

2013 Mercedes GL450 -- Hidden Gem in Big SUV's

Best small premium sport sedan !

C300 zoom

Glad I witched.

My Grandfather's Car with Gadgets

Love it

Colorado's newest C300 4Matic Sport

Impressive automobile

Saks 350 - Love it!

Sport Option = Big Go Kart

My first MB

After 1 year

7 speed automatic is a plus

Fantastic Car!

Almost Perfect!

Cool in Black

Great Car!!!

I Like This Car!

Why buy anything else.

The Best First Car!!!

Beautiful look

Benz-no-More?

Certified used

Steering Wheel locked

I Love This Car

Have it for 7 Years and loved it

This is a great little car for the money

Outrageous maintenance costs

Poor Reliability

2007 c-230

Tight Handling Safety Features

c63 bullet

'08 Best New Luxury Car Award from AJAC

C300 is Hott!!!

Car on "mute"

Awesome

Lowest Model Range But Highest Standards.

Major defect with Mercedes engine components

My Dream Car

Good Looks. Lacks Interior Features

Best value ever!

This car saved my life...literally.

Luxurious street legal racecar

Outstanding

I hate my C350 quality

Unexpectedly Poor Quality

My First Benz

Loving My AMG

Smoothest Ride Ever

Comfortable 

My BABY BENZ

I paid for the EMBLEM

Beware -

One Year Review - Update

Brass tacks

C300AWD, great in snow/ice.

Great car ..But.....

Not impressed after just 5 months

MBNA Corp has no regard for customers out of warranty

substitute for a BMW??

C63 AMG= gas thirsty but fun and fast

Tires are Definitely a Defect

5 out of 18 months in the shop

Loud Piercing Noise Coming From Breaks

Beautiful, but a bad "investment"

Wish I bought my 2013 C Class

C400 Head Turner

Be aware

Amazingly fast but amazingly expensive to maintain

Stay away

Great Car But Terrible Interface

First Mercedes, not to happy

Great car, with one fatal flaw

Second Time a Charm ... New C300 Sport is Great.

Stunning But Big Problems

Owned the C400 for a year now

What a Buy

C300 Sport - Best Car So Far

My Black MB coupe

Exceptional quality

Good buy!

Drive to Arrive!

Review

Excuse me Ms. Is that YOUR Benz?

Fun driving experience! Great car!

style, performance and ecomomy

My 2014 c300

Over 60 perspective

Great deal!

C Class is OUTSTANDING

The little engine that can!!

excellent

Still my favorite "sports" car to drive.

Very happy with my c350 4matic coupe

Contacted Mercedes USA for Help - They Dont Care

Great performance BUT...

Biggest pile of crap I have owned!

Please read this before you drive it off the lot.

Research before buying

Great car but...

Proud owner since August 2011

It's an MB.

Capable and sure-footed ride

Consider Certified Used

2011 C300 Sport V6 w/optional 7-speed automatic non-AWD

Best Premium Compact Sedan

Beautiful & more

Forever Mercedes-Benz

Great car

My first MB and it's a winner.

the tires are not great

Back in a Benz

Wonderful vehicle

Moving from BMW to a Benz

Been a good ride in my c300

Love it all, but one thing....

So far so good except seat

Great, but......

I'm back

Be carefull

Sorry Lincoln and Caddy 10K update.

Outstanding!

Awesome Automobile

Best Car I've even owned!

When Mercedes was built by Engineers....

Welcome to Benz.........

Second C

very happy so far

1 year, 10,000 miles, and very satisfied

Love my manual C300!

Poor quality workmanship for an expensive car

Drives much worse than its looks

Sorry Caddy and Lincoln, 40K mile update.

Great car hands down!

A Fantastic Car

Reliving the 1970's

Love My Benz

Mercedes Benz The Company and MBUSA

C-Class at it's BEST!

C300 Not Worth It

CPO: MB certification/extended warranty: a $ saver

Engine Problems-cam shaft adjuster

Terrific Ride, but no excuse for plastic seats

Great drivers car

Solid upgrade

Good, could be great

it is so fun to drive!

Sexy and Fun!

Excellent Car

Great Car

great car, but horrible nav system

My dad's c250 sport sedan

HANG ON TIGHT!

VERY DISSAPOINTING

I love this car.

Slick Machine !!!

Better than I expected

2012 C350-a great choice in this category

extremeC350

2012 Mercedes C300 Sport 4matic

Luv my Mercedes

Perfect mix of sportiness and luxury

Electrical Gremlins

If you can't afford the Millennium Falcon

C300 4matic AMG trim

A quantum leap!

100% bank vault mercedes @ 1/2 price of an "S"

Presentation and comfort make an exceptional ride.

Nightmare warranty issues

Good MB but short on comfort

class all it's own

C-300 Sport  Great Value

Great all around car

Used to love the car, but so unreliable...

Favorite of a lifetime

my c250

Great starter benz 

Truly a Great Car

Motor blew after 82000 miles.

Great ride for the money

You get what you pay for...

Quality all around

Fun to Drive

Didnt Expect It!

My first AMG

Nice Car, Could be better for the price

Good looking but a lemon

2006 Mercedes C230 sport

Quality problems for Mercedes Benz

My first Mercedes Benz/AMG

Great car

2017 Mercedes Benz C43 Sedan

New c300

C55 Amazing Power - Everything else????

Great car for under 20k

Great For Grandma

Squeak, Rattle and Buzz!

A Joy to Drive

DON'T BUY!

2007 C230 Sport Sedan

lst Time Mercedes Owner

Mercedes C230 Great Car

Excellent Bargain for a great dependable and good looking car !

Transmission Problems Right After 4 Years

44,000 miles and stuck in 2nd gear

Piece of junk! Jack !

Enjoyable drive

Luxury Ride

great car

Mercedes Benz C300 Sedan - Eco Start / Stop

It certainly is not your Father's MB anymore...

Best in Class

Very Poor Value

2016 C300;  First Impression - - WOW!

A great car

Maybe my favorite car so far.

Wish it had more practical options.

Finally...a Mercedes With BMW/Audi Handling

Best car ever

Best Mercedes since the 2007 E-320 Blue Tec

Happy every time I drive it

C450 AMG

C300 - 4me

Cheema

2013 GL550

GL450 Electronics problems continue!!!!

Waited nine month and it's been worth it

gl 450

Big, But Refined

Tall guy, first Merecedes (GL 450)

First non diesel since '95

2013 GL 450 Perfection

The S class of SUV's

Impressive Mercedes SUV.

My first luxury car is a winner

GLC300 4Matic Overachieves

Wonderful ride

MB knows how to build a car

First Merc

Class Leader in Mid Size SUVs

You read the praises, here's what's not so great.

Well built with loads of safety features

GLC300 HAS FAULTY AXLE WHICH BREAKS NEEDS RECALL

Great deal

Not That Great

GL Diesel: Great SUV Sluggish Performance

7 months later and still Love, Love, Love this car

Beware, it lokks good on paper, but is very disapp

Don't be fooled by the Mercedes Badge

Best SUV I have ever owned

Cool Week in Florida with a GLA 250

I love this car

Great choice for young generations

Glam no gutts!

Love my cer

I hate fake leather

Great car , great price!

Wheel Spin, Torque Steer, and Bluetooth Disconnect

Such a FUN combo of SPORT & CLASS!

Return MB buyer

Best sporty smaller SUV

I safe my life in this vehicle. Super strong body

new

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS!!!

MB Summer event - great lease deals

Love the GLA250!

Great car

Unique Multi-tasker

A sporty cross-over GLA250

Stylish, Sporty, Solid, Comfort!

Car of Cars

Best Car I have EVER owned

OVERPRICED, QUESTIONABLE QUALITY, LACK OF FEATURES

testmerc

Excellent car

Out with the Tundra, in with the Mini

Love the Clubman S

Clubman S Lot of Fun

COOP: the Cooper Clubman!

I LOVED this car!

So glad to have chosen a MINI Clubman

Great S

Lady in Red

Emperor's new clothes

4 Turbos and multiple other problems

Beware of numerous potential issues!

It was fun, but

Must be a lemon

Autobahn Driving

Sweet rally car with seating for four.

Hunt Club...man

Avoid this model and year like the black plague.  Catastrophic engine failures.

RUN!!! DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

Don't be Fooled

Pick of the Litter 

Weeeeeee!

No Countryman S 2017 in my future!

The Mini that's big

Loved it so much, my new car is another Mini!

A very nice SECOND car.

What a blast

Only a bucket of headaches

A very poorly made auto

What is the excitement, not here

Fun Car!

2011 Countryman  "S" AWD

Mini Mania

Fun if you like to pay for a toy

Mini Countryman S

Countryman all 4 Automatic

Snow loving clubman

Great Car!

The All4 is AllAmazing

Fustrated with my Mini

ALL4 What?

Zoom Zoom

The mini experience

Great fun to drive, but watch out for repairs

Pay for Fun 

Still having issues

Thoughts after 6 months of ownership

Great all wheel drive Mini!

All4Fun

repairs, repairs, repairs

My Mini

Automatic Transmission Trouble!

Automatic Transmission Problems

Great car up to a point

My Favorite Little Red Car

Mini Experience

Mini Review

Yippee

Midlife Crisis Car

mighty mini

Worst car ever built

Good for a while...

NOT reliable after 125K miles

It has bugs

MINI - Most Fun You Can Have Dressed!

Beware of the Mini

I love Minis

A little good, a lot of bad

The best!

For Risk-Takers Only

Older and Wiser

Disheartened

Nice drivability but Horrible Reliability

Won't drive anything but a Mini

I love my mini - Car lover

Cute on the Outside, Scarey Under the Hood

Need space in the garage?

Miss it, but GLAD it's gone!

Research the quality issues before you buy

'04 Mini Cooper S, The Best!

Best car ever!

Mini USA's little ATM machine!

My "Lil Blue"

MIN-E

Nothing but problems

Fun to drive but interior so so

Mini Cooper Owner's Nightmare

Great car

A BLAST

MONEY PIT! DON'T BUY!

Great car but...

A great car if you have a spare one and money

Nothing Minor about Mini

Best car all around

"Monster"

2002 MINI Cooper S

Booo for Mini

Mighty

Anybody want to buy a used MINI!

Excellent Car, Too Bad...

Stay Away!

"uncle"

Clutch and Transmission Failure

love it / hate it

Could Have Been SO Much Better

It's a good car the hatch back is way better.

We love this car !

2012 Mini Countryman S ALL4

Can't say I would buy another

2002 Mini Cooper S

Best small car on the road!

Mini is a great car

Best Car. . .Ever

Very upset!!

Love my little mini!

MINI gives the Maxi

Simply the best bang for your buck.

 Nothing But Problems....Throw-Away Cars

FUn to drive

Love Mini's but...

Fun car good in all weather

Poor Clutch Design

Not "more fun in a MINI"

Gotta love MINI but hate MINI problems

3-kid seats across solid electric

Happier with my MINI than I was with my BMW 328i

New model=worse model

Very nice Car.  Fantastic deal.

Love this car!

No more gas!!

A great value, despite being anomalous for M-B USA

I Sold the  Car just in third week

6 months with the 2014 B-Class

Underdog

An EV Benz with a Tesla Drive Train, Battery

Great Automobile

Excellent for an early electric car

Watch out for MINI customer service

Cute quirky w some less than ideal attributes

The little machine that could ...

So in love with my new Mini 4 door Hardtop

Iove my 2016 mini !!!!!!!!

Edmunds is clueless

Elegant, Understated Beast

Classy Car

Would live in my Levante if I could

Best Vehicle I've ever owned

Treat yourself

Pure Luxury

Luv my Levante S

The Maserati Lavente Is As Beautiful As The Ghibli

Italian delight!

Its not your mothers car

Had to have the Levante

A Dream Car

My Sexy Italain

There are limited options on this vehicle

STAY AWAY!! MAJOR RIP-OFF!!

Better than the critics say

Very cool and fun - til it breaks and cost  $$$$

Great Car

Despite the faults, my favorite car ever

Made me a customer for life

These Cars Have Problems!  Be Careful...

To my fellow Road Warriors

Just buy one!

It is a blast!

Worst decision ever

Best Car Ive EVER had!

My Mini

So Glad to Not Have It Anymore!

Great Car!

Pleasantly surprised

My wife's rotten apple

I Love My Car! But im loosing it! Bee ware!

"S" engine is now a star

So fun!

A car with ZIP

What Thrill!

Great car

Our new MINI

Put a Smile on your face !!

Worst car experience

Love my new Clubbie!

Better than I ever expected

AMAZING!!!

A lot of fun and great drive

New To Mini's

Stupid Mini

Fun to drive

Almost 4 years and still loving it!

Get rid of it before 82,000

Best car I've owned

maintanence nighrmare

Love My Clubman

Great Little Car

2009 Mini Cooper Clubman Base Automatic

The Jury is Out

Fun and then some

Shoulda bought the Honda

I get "cute" alot

Just Love It

Runs like a Deer

New Mini

Mini sold

Love My Mini/ Beemer Clubman

2010 Clubman S

Fun and Practical

I have a Love/Hate relationship with my Mini

Much better than advertised

Big Little Car

Still new, but what fun we're having.

it's not a car - it's a MINI

Don't Buy the Hype

MINI (Many Improvements Needed Immediately)!

Fun, Great Mileage, Beware of Repair Costs

Sweet little car.

Buyer Beware

2010 clubman base

My MINI has paint problems

Seats.

Best small sport car ever

Clubman Bond Street - Posh

new owner of 2 year old car

Zip, storage and compliments

Adorable and safe and FUN

Not so mini

Stiff ride, buzzy engine, noisy cabin

Mighty MINI S Countryman

Mini still lacking features

Fun, safe and mostly reliable....But dumb design.

2011 clubman, 85,000

The Best & Biggest MINI we've owned yet!

Cute but clunky driver interface and terrible mpg

One problem after another

It hangs

Peppy and fun, but not sure about longevity.

Great ride

My experience so far with my 2014 Countryman S

Cuteness will fade when you go to the gas pump

More for the money than expected

Love it!

Beware - Mini is a cool car, but breaks constantly

We bought a Brand new 2010 Mini Cooper Clubman LEMON

Excels at many things

Love/Hate Relationship

MINI Cooper S Hardtop Coupe

I love my mini baby!

Princess and Always in the shop

MINI Owner

Not If You Owned & Liked Previous BMW MINI's

Still enjoying my wife's MINI - 2door hardtop

BMW doesn't honor its warranty

2015 Mini Cooper S 

BMW does not honor warranty on clutch

pleased

Love My MINI

A luxury feel for half price

Great car

Fun, zippy car.

Snappy Go Cart

Mini cooper S

Wild Maus (mouse)

Don't Drive Away With This Car, Run From It!!!

Unreliable go-kart

MINI Review

You really need one

Why I love/hate my Mini

Bitter Sweet

Some changes:  
Dealer Eventually Sold Me My New Mini for $20,000

Mini now, Maxi$$$$ later.  Horrible resale value!

This car is garbage

Great Car

Go GO Cart GO!

Did I buy the right car 

My MINI Cooper S nightmare

a blissful honeymoon led to a nasty divorce

2008 Mini Cooper S

Mini at 50

mini car with GIANT aspirations fulfilled!

Great Car - but here's what you need to know

Too many problems, excessive oil consumption 

Fun to Drive, lots of limitations

Fun to drive comes with a Price!

So much fun - and oh so not worth it in the end...

My Mini Jazz

2011 Cooper S 

Real Lemon

Dream come true

Worth the wait

2012 Mini S convertible

MINI - Making driving fun again

So much fun! and frugal for us

Journey of the Black Pearl.

Never Again

Spicy Cooper

Love my Mini

Best MINI Ever!

Oil consumption & fuel mileage !

Fun and Quality

Rocket on wheels

New Mini Owner 2012

2012 Base Mini, Manual Trans, Lemon

2012 R58

It's an okay car

Crazy in love with my MINI

Great small car

Life is Good

I knew it was a mistake

A Repair Timebomb

MINI is a big LEMON

Chose this over a Miata

A car that makes you feel great

What a Money Pit - Should Be a Class Action Suit

Wish I had read up more on the common problems....

Your speedometer won't be even close to accurate

Horrible interior design & engineering/road noise

Love My Mini

Good fun driving

Nice little car

Not Reliable

2010 Cooper Hardtop 6 Speed Auto

Great Alternative

Looked nice but what a waste of money.

BUYER BEWARE

Every day is fun on this car!

Best Car I've Ever Owned

Prepare to be Mini'ed!!

Fun car to drive

Fun Car but Mini Service is Bad!

THE best small car for your $

Enjoyable Ride

Like a little go-kart

2010 JCW-BMW has another great car!

Do not enter the land where dragons dwell

Again?

Not Good in the Rain

Bad. Very. Very bad.

Buy something else

Don't buy this car

Maybe New But Not Ever Used

Piece of junk!

Terrible Car

do not buy

Buyer Beware

Poor Reliability

A TRUE MONEY PIT!  Buy Anything Else.....

Great, Fun-to-Drive Car

BUY OR CONSIDER BUT BEWARE

TURBO CHARGER

Paper Weight

Poor Quality

Love the Look, Spotty Reliability

ROAD HUGGER

So much fun!

Adequate...in a good way.

Clutch Issues Still Not Resolved

GAS GUZZLER WITH ROUGH RIDE

A "hoot" to drive

Great style, poor reliability

Auto transmission 

2005 Mini Cooper S

Dream car turned into nightmare car.

Mini Baby

LOVE My Mini

It's a Keeper

Cute Sexy but not for everyone

A Nightmare from Start to Finish

A colossal piece of Euro garbage!!!!

Great car!

A Very Bad Investment

2007 mini cooper S - run now!

Do Not Ever Buy a Mini

Unfortunately, I am on a 1st name basis with the members of the Maintenance Dept.

i luv my mini*

Fun to drive when I can

Love after test drive

Cute Car, Expensive up keep

2005 Mini S

SERIOUS problems with this car - do NOT buy

Sell it before the warranty runs out

23 Years of BMW

Fun to drive when not being fixed

Reliability?

This car was a nightmare!

Lease it dont buy 

Cute but designed to fail

Buyer Beware

Don't waste your money on a Mini Cooper!

Love and Loathe

Timing Chain / Tensioner

Don't Say You Weren't Warned

Don't but get the Panoramic roof option

Mmmm... I got mixed feelings!

Worst Car Ever

Great Little Big Car

smiling everyday

My favorite car I've ever owned

New owner

BIG Fun in a Small Car

A Blast from the Past 

2006 Mini Convertible S

Fun, Fun, Fun

Amazing ride in such a small package

too much fun

Beware

Mini Cooper S  *Yes or No*

For The Last Time, It's a Sports Car

Cooper S with Rally Package

Almost as fun to drive as my Porsche

DONT DO IT

Chili Red 2006 Mini

How Fun is This?

Great Car - Horrid Gas Mileage

Excellent Quality Small SUV

Major Problems with this vehicle!!

Addicting acceleration, nice Mercedes trim

Mercedes B Electric - great car

When you dont need a four door

Fun car, Terrible Electronics

Maxi pleasure from MINI Paceman

nigel and i are in love <3

The perfect car.

Handles like a sports car

It's not for everyone, but I love my CX-3

CX-3 -- what the reviews don't mention

Man what a car!!

Don't waste your money!

Poor Interior Design

Good car, poor service.

Not bad, but could be better

Perfect Choice!

Must-a-got-a-lemon

Ghibli SQ4

Chryslerati.....no thanks

FEAKER

not a good car

A real looker!

cx-9 is sublime!

Drive it Forever

Has everything except storage

Have now owned for 1 year

Lots of potential

You know that smiling grill Mazda has?

Replaced Wrecked 2015 CRV

Moving from the tired CX-9 to the CX-5

MAZDA CX 5 2016 - MAZAD non-cooperation re Lemon

Great Ride, Awful Navigation (No Live Traffic)

pleasant surprise

Hands down the most amazing crossover out there

Best In Class, Most Room for 7

It survived the Dragon

Stay away from this Car and all following years

No XM unless you go top of the line

Love performance, hate the new exterior design

What a Sweet Ride - Mazda has done a wonderful job

Beyond Awesome!

Buying a New CX-5 without XM

Nice small SUV

Great Car

All in the family

Feels more expensive than it is, still... a few bugs

Fun to drive but there are some problems

One Year Later

I Love my CX-5!!!!!!

Great with some small annoying stuff

Awesome Car For Florida

Driving is an end in itself in a miata

Schnootz is his name

Excellent Vehicle

Why I am in love with Paulina

IMHO

'92 Mazda Miata

Miatatrophy

the best reliable fun car i ever had!

miata

Good Bad and the Ugly

Drives Great - Virtually a Home Run

2014 Mazda CX-5 Touring

A Happy New Mazda Owner

So far, beyond expectations!

Faithful Honda owner Switch to Mazda

Best Crossover For the Money

Tire warning light problem

cruise and gas problems

New transmission at 41K miles

2.5 Touring w/Bose and Tech package

Overly Impressed!

Best in Class

Happy so far

Best car I've ever had

Acceleration Issue

Best Car I've Owned in a Very Long Time

Excellent mechanically, terrible electronics.

Very Good w/ a few concerns

Brakes a Problem!!

Overall good choice

Great Small SUV!  Very Useful and Fun to Drive!!

Great CUV for Money and Great Gas Mileage

Excellent Car

Fun to drive & great on gas!

mg revisited

Zip Car

This Car Rocks

91 miata

Just purchased this car on 2-25-03

1991 Miata

Love it!

miss you

Review of my Miata

No regrets

Fun, Fun, Fun

A Dandy Special Edition 

Nice Sport Car!

God Allow's U-Turns

Couldn't ask for a better car...

After owning it for 20 years, still a great car!

Best Car I've ever owned.

Fantastic car that is very fun to drive.

Love of my Life :o))

Money well spent So much Fun to Drive!

Great Vehicle

Great Surprise

Zoom x 2

Runs great in Salt Lake City you must test drive this SUV!!

After 6,500 miles I still love it

Detailed Review of my new2014 CX-5

From a Mazda 3S to a CX-5

Gas Mileage not as high as advertised

Towing with CX5 Touring Model (with 5000 miles)

Great SUV

Superior vehicle and a blast to drive!

Old School roadster without the grief

Fun In The Sun

it rocks!

nice car

92000 Miles & Still Going!

Roadster Fun

Love my Miata!

Dependable, classy Classic Roadster

My best out of ten cars.  My true joy.

Reliable and fun

Bigger Bang For The Bucks

Classic Roadster

11 YEARS AND STILL GOING STRONG

1993 miata

IMHO

I have seen the light!!

Miata lover :)

Great Car

This is my Second First Generation Mazda Miata

Second most fun you can have

Just Plain Fun!

To Much Fun / Like an Anvil Reliability

New Thrills

LOVE MY RAGTOP!!!!

1992 Sunburst Yellow Miata

Motorcycle replacement

Smiles per gallon

I Love This Thing...

Zoom Zoom

Forget the CRV

Best of class

Mazda cx5

Mazda CX-5 GT with premium package. Best in class!

2017's best automotive bargain!

94M

Fun and still running!

Great tuner car

Cannot be beat for the money!!

Wicked cool

Fun toy 

It's a blast to drive

Great Little Roadster

Good Value, Dependable

loving my miata

No regrets

Miata Rulz

9 Years without a problem

Awesome Sports Car

love it

So Far, Exceeds Expectations

I love this car!

Great with a big exception

2014 CX5 2.5 Touring

Except for the heating, A/C and defogger systems

Awesome little buggy

love it  but the 2016 is on the way

Lots of great, some not so great

Great, until the 2017 was released

The Worst Stereo/Electronics I've Ever Encountered

Still Looking Good After 17 Years

This car rocks!

The Best Sportscar I have EVER Owned

I love the Miata

Fun, relatively cheap

Very impressed!

Huge upgrade from the 2016 model---LOVE MY 2017

Still getting to know mine but liking it so far

More zoom-zoom than your typical compact SUV

Very Impressed

Quite Pleased  (Needs a few tweaks)

CX - 5  Grand 

5,000 Miles in, all smiles

750 miles and love it so far (Update at 36k)

Peppy!

Instant Classic Import 

1990 Miata

First Year Miata '90

Lil Red

Great Fun

Miata is the best damn car I have ever owned

A Great Car with one potential problem

THE LITTLE THAT WILL NEVER DIE

The Mazda Miata: THE Best Car Ever Built

Love love love this car

Excellent vehicle for the money

Fun to drive

Great car

So fun to drive BUT

Do Not Pay For The Tech Package with the Mazda CX 5

Cheap Fun!!

nice tic-tac

1990 Miata

WOWZERS!!!

Miata

Some kid got another chance at life!

Love my RED Santa Baby

Great Car!

20k miles in 1 year, updated review

After 30 Days

Great classic car to commute in the summer.

I love my miata

Best money ever spent!

Just Bought One

Owner

Great compact SUV

4 months in

First New Car in 15 Years

My GT RoCkS!

Will never leave Mazda again!

Honeymoon ended

Cx9 AC and Sunroof.

Expensive car to own

Big Zoom

Great GT

My worst luxury car experience

I love the performance

2.5 Years in and I've learned my lesson

Nice Car But Expected More

My Favorite Car Ever

My second CX5!

Miata genes in a wagon body

Couldn't be happier with my purchase 

New Mazda Fan

Feature filled small SUV built for any weather.

Small AWD fully loaded!! Love my CX-3!

Love it!

Very fun to drive if the space works for you.

Mazda CX-3 - great subcompact crossover

Awesome car

Love the handling and styling of my new Mazda CX-3

Still loving our CX-3! (Even with some cons)

Great Car!!

Fun and comfortable car

SUV with sport car personality

What it is --- and what its not

very impressed

Seriously Fun To Drive

Favorite car ever!

My Little Soul Red CX-3 (rest in pieces)

Perfect lease car

Stay away from Maserati

Wonderful Car

Still Not Impressed

No all weather tires???

AWD GT with i-active sense package

solid tank of a car

Love my CX3

Excellent car, no regrets.

Miata's rock

My 50th Birthday Gift

More fun for the money than...

Fun 3rd Car

Great, if impractical car.

I love driving again

Looking for a roadster experience?

Seriously good car

Be careful of the one that you buy

Supercharged, intercooled with awesome power/handl

zoom zoom

1999 Miata

My Miata

99 Silver Bullet

2000 miata

True Roadster

A fun car to drive!

Very good car indeed.

Love it!

My second Miata

Nice fun car to drive.

6 years, 160K, but had issues

Hard to find any competition for this car!

I Miss My Miata

Capability Review

Couldn't be happier.

Second Childhood!!

Fun car to drive

Miata STO

Zoom Zoom On

red vet

Too much fun for very little money......

who can complain when they're smililng??

Mazda Miata

Why I love my Mazda Miata

An excellent weekend car

I love my Miata

2nd Year of Use Review

Followup

Miata Shinsen is great!

light heavyweight

An Experience

fun car

Miada Mama

owner

Just Plain Fun!

Bad computer 

Most fun EVER!

Replaced My '95

Near Perfection

Loving My Miata

Happy George

A Miata that's car-like

Almost spent $50K on a Boxster...

apotheosis of a dream

Adult sports car

Great Car

Keeps getting better and better

09 sky vs 09 phrt mx5

Grinning From Ear to Ear

Intial impressions of our new MX-5

What A Car

Best Miata Ever!

2009 MX5 - Driven 40k in the last 1 1/2

07 grand touring mx 5

Love My Miata

Never loved a car till this one ;)

Timeless Elegance

My second MX5

Best Miata Ever

Best all around sports car

Great Overall

Awesome Roadster

A dash of exotic for the Miata

2007 MX5 GT PRHT

Miata MX-5 GT with PRHT

2007 MX-5 with power hard top

Great Car and lots of fun

Love this thing...

Alberta Canada

Rollin' the Rockies

waaay too much fun!

Not for everyone, perfect for some

Solid and Fun

Excellent vehicle for fun, value...and FUN!

Everyone Must Drive One

My First Miata

McGruber was a wise man

First New MX-5 Miata, but not first MX-5

The Perfect Roadster!!

Porsche or Mazda + Diamond?

Always wanted one

The GT PRHT is the perfect sports car

Most Driving Fun.  Period.

Transformation in the Tires

Just got it, love it already

Looking for many miles of motoring fun

mazdaspeed miata

Mazda Miata

Got Mine!

Miata fan

Great Fun Car for  Guys looking for Toys

Big smile car

New to mazda

Great Fun

I Love My Miata

SO MUCH FUN !!!!!!!!

zoom zoom = FUN

Retirement Car

Mazda M5

masda miata special edition

Zoom Zoom

A true sports car at economic price.

A mind-blowing sports car to drive!

My 3d Miata


Convertible heaven without convenience

Fun

2009 Miata (Grand Touring w/Power Top)

Top Down Fun!

If it was more fun it would be illegal

Often misjudged for what it is

MX-5 Happy

Duel N Fun

BEST THERE IS!

The Most Fun You Can Have With Your Top Down

The best selling sports car, EVER!

Our Midlife Crisis

Car Puts A Smile On Your Face

great

Zoomie

Fantastic!

great roadster

Love my Miata

vinny car

My "WIND-UP"

Just plain fun

Only disappointment is price of replacement key

MX5 - there's no substitute

A great toy and dependable car!

Used Car Bargain

Fun 2 Drive

Lovin' It

I love it!

Awsome

love this car

Miata Mama's Fun Toy!

TALL PEOPLE BEWARE!!!

Mazda mx-5 speed

fun but tight

My Miata

Excellent Auto

2008 MX-5

Wish I had done this years ago!

Just Plain FUN

just better over the years

Fun! Fun! Fun! Economical! Oh and Fun!

Let a little Zoom Zoom change your life!

A fun car for people who like to drive

Best choice by far

Special Edition - Near Perfect

Love my 2008 Mazda Mx-5

My 5th Miata

Harley Davidson Replacement

Comfort

Best Fun Factor on 4 wheels - 2006 Miata

Rained out in my 2006 MX5

Better than a Sky or Solstice!

Second Mazda Miata 1999 to a 2006 Grand Touring

Fun car!

Great second car

Love this car. Fun to drive.

Attention Enthusiastic Drivers!

It is true what others are raving about this car...

Excellent 

Long Distance Driving in a Miata MX-5

Why aren't more cars built like this?

My second Miata

Midlife crisis at 69!

MX5

Topless Delight

New and fresh indeed

Miata Still Has It...

Lovin' Every Minute of It

A true motoring Icon

Great fun

Zoom Zooming

Must buy for driving enthusiast, with reservations

Fun in the Sun Car

Honey I wish I had a convertible

Slot Car

A joy to drive, but hurts my back

2001 mx-5

My Hobby

Great little Roadster in Austin

Only possible car for short people

The biggest go-kart in the world

Saved my life... best little car

Zoom Zoom

Go for it

Miata is one smooth cruise

2001 Mazda Miata

You can't beat it!

Can fun cost this little?

HS Grad. Present

Frank's Silver Miata

I love my Miata

Glad I'm on Earth - only place with  MX5

love my Miata

A drivers dream

True Love

Great Toy

Ilove this car

This Car ROCKS!!

What an awesome car!!!!!!!!!!!

Mazda Miata 5 spd, leather inter, red convertible

FUN!

ZOOM ZOOM  ZOOM

MY FAVORITE CAR

Great fun car

The most fun for your dollar!!

Dreams Come True!

BEST SPORTS CAR 

MX 5 Owner for more than a decade

Best 2 seater for the money

No snow bunny

Life after 50, it doesn't get any better

Wheeeeeee

Our fun car

It's a beautiful thing....

A scalpel in a world of hammers

My 3rd Miata

Miata Equals Fun

O.K., But......

I LOVE my Miata!

Makes you excited to wake up 

2000 LS - Reliable and Fun

Lovin' it!

Miata

Get one!

Buy 2, they're small

My first vehicle purchased

Best car ever!

Still Smiling

Buy 2, they're small

Best Roadster.

Not just a girls car... Street Legal GoKart!!!

Summer Car

Couldn't Ask For More

Best car ever.

Excellent car!

Favorite Car yet

BEST DEAL EVER

3 year love affair

Miata STO

Excellent 2nd car

Sports car in its purest form

Fun to drive

You'll Get My Miata...

The little red engine that could

Holy Cow!

not very practicle

Fine Balance

Mood Elevator

My Life Long Dream

The best sports car ever made!

I love it...

Makes Me Smile

Dream come true!

More Fun Than My 500SL

Most fun car I've ever owned

Underrated

Teacher'sCreamPuff --96 BlueMiata

Miata Owners Review

Miata... a blast for the bucks

Get one

'96 Montego blue, PEP + leather

Inexpensive, fun and make a statement

Fun Little Car

The most fun car I have ever driven!

More fun than a Boxster!

Best toy car in the world

The most fun you'll have with your pants on!

From Costco to Autocross

Top Banana!

Second time around

My NEW (to me) Miata

10th anniv. worth the extra $

I LOVE my Miata even after ...

Awesome 1999 miata

'95 Miata M

Love this car!

1995 Mazda Miata

Still the One

95 Miata

Fun

Best modern sports car

Awesome

95 Miata

Go Miata!

Old dog still hunts!

I Love my car!!!!!!!!!

Lotsa Miles

Nothing like a go-kart on steroids

Simply Perfect

Motoring, indeed.  Top down 2 seater with style!

Lead Foot Lucy is Happy

Best cheap "fun car" to drive

Beautiful!

Why did I sit out this long?

A settled, less exciting car

GREAT LITTLE CAR FOR ONE!!

Shop around.

Imperfect for all the right reasons!

You get everything you expect from a small roadste

Excellent overall

Most fun Crossover to drive

rmoore

2008 mazda cx9 Grand touring awd

Great Car, Skip the built in Nav

Amazing vehicle!

What a wise decision.

Hidden time bomb!

Sporty SUV

Great car!

Awesome Vehicle!!

Drives like a sports car..ZOOM ZOOM ZOOM

6th SUV

Mazda CX-9 is smooooooth

As fuel efficient as a dinosaur

From Gernan to Japanese!

Awesome car!

Excellent Crossover - terrible Nav 

Best In Class!

No problems so far

Luxury for a non-luxury price

Love this car, hate the drivers seat,

Germany has been crushed Mercedes, Audi take notes

First Mazda

Fun Car. Fuel Economy no so fun.

Excellent Vehicle to drive

Car or brand...

Good but could be much better

Disappointing Investment

I cannot wait for my lease to end

Bad transmission / torq. conv. & NHTSA: Bad brakes

Buy a Pilot or Highlander

Good car minus the navigation

Not as good as my 2009 CX 9

My 2nd CX-9

Amazing Vehicle

CX-9 all mine

The only thing really bad is the gas mileage

Bought something else

Luxury feel overall

Snazzy Dazzy

Snazzy Dazzy

Technology incompetent

Love the CX-9

A overall great suv.

2014  CX9

Great drivable SUV

Easilly Comfortable

A Great Vehicle, Except for the Mileage

Most Excellent

BEWARE!

Prop shaft defect

What a Machine!

Everyday Driver

Loving my car

Mazda CX -9 Soars

Great Value, Great Crossover, Great Dealer

Unexpectedly Great!

Great car for a family

Fantastic Automobile, Kick A Bose, Awesome SUV

Built like a tank

great car for the price

Toxic Fumes Fill Car when Impending T-Case Fails

Tech outdated, to much hard plastic on dash

A surprisingly nimble upgrade from the Mazda 3

King of its category

Great car - but be aware...

Finally Settled on the CX-9 Touring After Months of Test Drives

Best value in a 7 seater!

CX-9 Just picked up today!

LOVE IT!

So Far So Good

Best 3-row CUV on the market

Love this CX-9

WOW....

Many strong features, a few minor irritants

Very good, not quite great

Great Car, avoid the GPS

Best 7 Passenger SUV I could find

Best AWD Crossover

Very Nice Vehicle

Great Car so far

don't buy from Byers Mazda- Columbus Ohio

Excellent 7 seat SUV

Sooooo not the minivan

Large SUV that Drives Like a Car!

Excellent family car

Initial review: Great!

Almost 3 years old and still love this car

From 7 to 1

Very pleased!

CX-9 AWD rocks the rockies

My CX-9

STAY AWAY!

Glare on Steering Column due to Mazda insignia

2012 Mazda CX-9 Grand Touring Review

Pretty good value & great handling

Mrs. J

Mazda cx-9 Grand Touring awd

CX-9 hits the spot

CX-9

Great Find!

Top Notch Choice

Grand Touring Rocks!

Brake Booster - Your car won't stop

Average at best

Love Love Love it!  

Fun to drive, but not so reliable

Lotta car for the money!

Great Driving SUV

First Mazda - Impressed so Far

Audi, Cayenne, or Mazda(really!)??

Mazda Targeting Luxury SUV Buyers.

1 year update... Researched for 6 months

BMW Of Japan....ultimate Zoom Zoom machine!

moving up in style

Driving matters - Mazda stays true to this!

Love my 2016 CX-9

Definitely a Driver's Car

We chose it over the Q7 and XC90

As fun to drive as the old one, just better

Great bang for the buck

Sweet CX-9 GT

Best Looks & Riding SUV Available!!!

Things to consider before purchasing

Love the car, not the dealer

Practical yet cool SUV

Shame on Mazda

Sweetest SUV on the Market

Best Yet

So Far So Good

Solid Near Luxury Contender

Chose Mazda Over Infiniti?

Great value but could be so much more!!

Drivers 3-row CUV more upscale than before

LOVE it but I have a problem

Happy with purchase of CX9

More fun than Pilot, just as safe

Water coming into car after heavy rain

Fun to Drive, Very Poor Quality

Stands Out in the crowd

Familyt Road-Trip Rock Star!

like my CX-9

Big Zoom Zoom

Really Like This Vehicle

Great Value & Still Zooming in Raleigh

A great SUV.

Crash worthy

Great Vehicle!

Owned 5 years and really pleased, hate to sell

11,000 Mile Review

Great Car if You Were Not Scared Off By The Price

AWESOME RIDE!!!

Good car, Horrible tires

2010 CX-9 GT AWD

Mazda CX9 is ZOOM ZOOM GOOD

Graceful Mile Muncher

New Car Performs

Quality , Luxury, Value

Great Vehicle

2017 CX-9 Grand Touring AWD

I love this car!

The Mighty CX-9

Beware of sunroofs and drainage flaws all years and models.

Praise God! For this vehicle

Mazda CX9 FWD Grand Touring

What a CRAZY AMAZING SUV with Zoom Zoom!

2008 Mazda CX-9

zoon zoom smart

Great vehicle until the brake issues hit

Most reliable vehicle we have EVER owned.

Loving my ride so far

Miata Wonders

Exactly what I expected

Mazda has no air cond***

Love My 2015 Grand Touring

Car Full of Joy

Fun toy!

new car

Hang on tight

Cruising

2013 MX-5 Club Review

2500 miles in....what a great car

Mid Life Crisis Car

A pure sports car for not that much $$

A CAR NOT WORTH HAVING

Took the Miata over the New Porsche Boxster

Miata 
New MX-5 Miata 2016, great car inside out.

Looks good. Drives well. Very bad Nav system.

My new 2016 MX-5 miata GT - just plain fun

More fun to drive than my former Corvette

Deleted my "Bucket List"!

Almost perfect

A Great Fun Ride & Great MPG's

Driving is now FUN! Even after 15,000 miles!

A Very Fun Car - BUT?

2014 Mazda Manual Hard Top

2014 mazda miata convertible a blast to drive!

A Head Turner

Fun to drive!

Sexy car with a lot of power

Italian style & luxury surpasses the Germans

Good from far, far from good.

Ghibli/Ferrari!

Stop vile excuses !

Extremely happy with our 2016 Gibli S

The Maserati Ghibili Is That Car!

Perfect balance between a smooth and sporty ride

One of the best I have driven

Very nice luxury sports sedan

Maserati Ghibili S Q4; It's That Car You Will Love

excellent, poor dealership earnhardtmaserati,

Two cars in One

The best care we have ever owned!

2012 GranTurismo

Equal parts of fun and class

I love my maserati

Great used buy luxury GT but slow car

Nice looking, great customer support, but question mark on Reliability

Not Normal = Fun to drive cross over coupe.

Happy buyer!

Fun car great value

I don't miss my Genesis Coupe all that much.

great ride for the money

Dangerously slow acceleration

A lot of car for the money

The 2016 scion im really sucks!

Great little car!

201,895 original  miles!

What a great little car!

2 year review 

Mazda 3s - 5-door hatch

first year model problems

I recommend it to anyone who asks

Park it in the Winter

Mazda Sp 2.3

ZOOM-ZOOM

Been great so far!

Great, but not for everyone!

A real Gem

Get it if you want to be actively involved in driving.

Easily one of the best cars for the money!

FRS - ThrowOut Bearing Failure &  Customer Service

Overall very disappointing

Amazing Car For the Money

Best Driver's Car

The most smiles per mile

So Far Great

So Fun Firestorm Red

Great car

best one !

Stay Away

My first car

The best in its class

Not good

Super commuter!

Sold after 9months

Goes like hell

Great all purpose car that is a blast to drive

My daily driver, and favorite car I have had

Do not buy the Scion FRS - you will regret it

Scion FR-S

Everyday RocketShip

15200 Mile Review WRX Limited

Fun, affordable, and practical!

Most Fun For Under $30K With 4 Doors

Traded after 2 months 2015 WRX

Pros far outweigh the cons

Love It, but It's Killin' My Wallet.

2005 Scion tC Release Series 1.0

Some really obvious design oversights

Excellent Sporty Ride

Good Car with a Noisy Engine

I absolutely loved and adored my tC but....

My Horrible Experience

This car sucks

Should I drive it?

camshaft

2008 yaris hatchback is a beast!!!

My Yaris Rocks!

Surprised

'08 Yaris, the future of cars

Feels like it was just built at 108k

Still Going Strong

For the value, you really can't beat it at all.

2008 sedan still going strong

Worth it.

The Most Reliable Car Ever

This car deserves better press!

Solid!

very pleased 

Best value in a compact car

This little guy is a champ!

Great Car

Yea for Yaris

My car

Close to Perfection

The most sensible car purchase ever

The reliable, lovable 2007 Yaris 

DAILY DRIVER ! Great MPG very economical

I get it - it's an economy car. But c'mon!

We Survived

Whoohoooo!!!

Faulty seatbelts in Yaris 2007

From a Jeep to a Yaris

Couldn't be happier

I heart yaris, I hate cupholders

It's a great little car for the money

Sweet little retirement car

GREAT CAR! Does what is expected

When driving became fun again!

Fun and Pratical

Affordable, Reliable and Sporty-Looking

Fun car but NOT worth it! READ.

Fun!

Never let me down

TC heaven

A Trap!

just ok

Nice Car

Happy with My Tc

Still in Love

Great car

Good car until the last 18 months

Love It!

Great Car

Excelent!!

It just doesn't die !

Nice car but doesn't hold up in a crash

the best little car

253,000 miles and counting!

The Yaris is Great!!!

Worth every penny

79K and all major parts needed replacement

College Student with Hopes

2006 

Decent little car but overpriced.

Stop Looking Right Here

Scion TCs rear handle hatch molding broke

217,000 miles and still going strong

Great Car

Not all that

what a blast to drive & own - 46,000 mile review

3 weeks and 3000 miles

2500 mile review of my WRX

Lots of good things in this WRX

2015 WRX CVT

Raw, uncouth fun!

WRX long term - a drivers car

6MT 2015 WRX is the car I always dreamed of!

Serious Fun!

Everything I expected and a whole lot more!!

safety

Best Car Yet

GREAT LITTLE CAR

Fun and Safe!

Best car I've ever owned!!!

A Sad Day

You'll never want to buy another car!

Mazda3 2.3L Engine Failure

3 years of cross country driving

Tough Car to Like

Over 320,000 miles still going

Find a better car for the money buy it!!

Good Value - All Around Car

Mazda 3 SP23 Manual 

Not Bad!

Great coupe with good features

Chaz was beyond great

Fun ride, but beware of problems.

Mazda3 Pretty Decent Vehicle

This is entry level?!

Best Car I've ever owned

What a piece of ^%$^%$^&%!

Wish I still had it!

2004 Mazda 2.3 Sedan

2 year long term test.. 60000 km!  5 speed

Love this car but beware

Real Zoom Zoom Car

2.3L Engine Prone to Failure

Great car until the warranty runs out

No regrets!

Worst car I've ever owned

Bet Car Purchase Ever

Yaris is the only way to go for family under 5

Not a 'small Corrolla' - nice ride!

Try to find a better car

I bought this instead of a 2017 Camry LE

Very Pleasantly Surprised

Scion iA / Toyota Yaris iA / Mazda 2 Incredible!!!

Great buy from Riverview toyota

How good IM !

Great car!!!!

Just Got My IM June 10th

I drove the Eurospec Auris and loved it!

Great Car

Ignore the "pro" reviews

I drove the Eurospec Auris and loved it!

I love this car,

Love my 2016 Scion iM

Great Little Ride

Amazing!!!!!

iM a fan

Electric blue im

My iM

Love the car, but want more from it....

Worst Car I Ever Owned

Volvo is Swedish for Unreliable Money-Pit

Safety with style

Worst SUV I have ever purchased

Test Drive of XC90

What Volvo is not telling you about this car.

Very happy @ 200,000

Bad reliabitlity had to get rid ,very disappointed

My  Favorite Car

SLPAKP's Review

Volvo XC 90 T6 Sucks !

Serious Competition

pretty solid

avoid the 2003 XC90

Safe but Sorry

Never Again

Frequent Service

First Year XC90...Gremlins

Too many troubles

5th Volvo

Best vehicle I've ever owned

4th Set of Tires with just 83,00 miles

Great concept; Poor execution

What A Joke

Great Family SUV

Everything breaks!  Marked low to bring it's ratings down!

Ok so far

L-O-V-E my Volvo!

Good Car

Please DON'T buy, lost a lot of money on this puppy

great SUV but not atheletic

one year of ownership

Perfect but serious software issues

Best car I have owned

15+ miles, no gas

Great value for money

Best in class

Solid, Comfortable

Good Deal for the Money

Scandinavian Delivery

Fun to drive and look at

Great Car/Terrible Mileage

20K+ and Still Liking it

Solid SUV

2008 XC 90 is Great

2008 XC90 3.2 AWD

Jury is still out

Stranded

Great car needs better tires

AWESOME SUV!

Great Value

just purchased

Over 40k miles

Beware of transmission issues

recommended

Was a Volvo Family

I Love This Car

Squeaky and Breaky

Excellent SUV

OK

I'm Rattled

The best SUV on the Market

See review at 6K miles.

Solid 

Love at first sight

My best car ever!!  Still good and hate to give up

2007 XC90 AWD V8

XC 90 is not quite what I expected from Volvo

Sadly Engine Scrapped

I Love Volvo for life!

Love it!

4X4 Sports Car

Absolutely love it!

Best SUV I've Owned

Buyer Beware

From one car guy to another

2007 Volvo XC90 V8

2009 V8 R-Design XC90

Best SUV I have owed thus far

Some issues

Recommend!

Take it or leave it

Volvo Fan

Back for Seconds

Love my XC90

Overall good

Beige leatherseats

A Volvo that turns heads??

Just right SUV for family

Best car I've ever owned

paint is real failure

Super Little Car

Awsome car

My best car!

Almost 3 years under my belt....still going strong

Nice car

Good little car.

Amazing

Go Yaris

Econobox

Review after 17 months of ownership

'09 Yaris

4 yr. ownership review

NADIR

2011 XC90 R-Design

Very Happy So Far

Magic Blue R-Design for the Road

Traded-in 2013 XC60 for 2011 XC90

Needs a model refresh...

4 Years and 125000 Klm's

Great car

Good car but others have gotten better

Love my YARIS 2009, great gas saver for the city

Great Litte Car But.....

Didn't expect the clunky-ness

High Expectations Slashed

2012 XC90

My Second Volvo

XC 90

Our third XC90, but not our favorite

Poor Reliability and Quality!!! Don't Waste  Your Money!!!

Best vehicle for New England driving

Fantastic SUV

Good Value for the Money

XC90 THE BEST OF THE REST

New Buyer

Worth every penny

great at first NOW IM GETTING RID OF IT!

Nice Ride!

Good but needs a overhaul 

After 2 months

4 Months Driving Experience with XC90

Van to XC90

good choice in mid size SUV category

Second XC 90

Mold Smell in A/C system & Low Oil Level Warning

Nice Car - Couple concerns

Bought it cheap! Best car I've ever owned!!!

2004 volvo xc90 T6

2004 XC90 T6

Too many problems dont buy

Best car I have ever owned

Volvo converted me to BMW

Owned for 4 years - love it

XC90 Ocean Race Edition

Love it so far!

DON'T buy a Volvo

nice suv 

In love with my Volvo

Shines in bad weather

great used car value

2006  2.5T AWD XC90

Updated review - 7/2016

2004 Volvo XC90 Transmission Issues

Huge Transmission Problems

Expensive All-Weather Hauler

Ticking Time Bomb!!

The Best Family Midsize SUV 

V8 loaded & love it!

Would never ever recommend or purchase again!

Not happy with my XC90's we have 2!!

First Volvo

Great, apart from parking brake/hybrid system

A True Luxury SUV with Outstanding Technology

Great car, terrible technology

This car was NOT ready for prime time

Great looking car just not reliable

Good times with grandchildren

Excellent Used Car Value 

not so sure about this car

great car

xc90 work car

Lemon.  They had to take it back

Who needs options

Great car but I have a wish list for changes

Can't wait to get out of this car

Parking brake needs service

Do NOT BUY 2016 XC90

Amazing Vehicle

XC90 FIRST EDITION, GREAT STEP FORWARD FOR VOLVO

Why did I buy this car?

Volvo for Life...NOT ANYMORE!

New Standard for SUV's

Think Twice about a 2016 XC 90

Hold off buying this car !

2016 XC90 T8 In Shop FOR 14 Days Today  Owned for

In the shop over 80 days in the first 3 mos

On the 4th transmission! Terrible car

Unrealistic Expectations

Worst Vehicle I've EVER Owned

Transmission needed

Stay Clear

Be careful

First Volvo and very pleased.

Won't buy another one

I  WOULD NOT purchase another XC90

Volvo Rating

Solid and safe family transport

My Big Mistake! Take our advice!

Comfortable car, but it's a money trap!

Happy because I bought the model with the good engine!

XC90 After Chrismas Volvo

Great Car with bad design flaw

High Tech on Wheels but Keep Eyes on Road

Very happy!

Hot Mama Mobile

They used to emphasize safety, now its tech

Really Nice Ride

I love it!

Scandinavian test drive

VOLVO XC90

We love our new xc90

A Year of Heaven

2005 Volvo XC90 

V8 Engine Is Prone to Catastrophic Failure

Do Not Buy This Car

Worste SUV in the market

Lovely Car

weird smell

2009 Sedan automatic

Toyota Quality

More Front End Brake Problems

I love my Tundra

Give me a brake!!

Tundra quality is poor!!

Still crazy

Excellent Truck

It's almost perfect

As good as full size trucks get 

2001 Toyota Tundra with 203,000 miles

2000 Toyota Tundra SR-5 Extended Cab

Toyota Tundra Rides On

2000 Tundra

True Believer

Perfect light duty

Not perfect, but pretty close

Best truck we ever owned

I prefer it to wife's Lexus

2001 TOYOTA TUNDRA SR5 ACCESS CAB 4X2 V8

Best Truck Ever

Just a great truck

What a great truck

I love my Tundra!!

GoodTruck

Almost Perfect

toyota's rule 

Nice truck!

Great truck!

Is This The Best The Auto Industry Has?

Love My Tuindra!

Great Truck

Tundra: Built like a Rock!

130,000 and Going Strong

Keeps on truckin

So Far So Good

Excellent truck!

12 years and totally satisfied!

SIlver Hoss

Remarkable truck!

Very Happy

At 32k mi, this is what I have to say

I LOVE MY TUNDRA

My second Big Toyota.

Damn good truck!

2003 Tundra

04 Tundrea Double Cab SR5 4X4 - 214K Miles No Problem

Need a used Toyota 4WD 4 door truck? Best bet here

Great truck

2004 Tundra Double Cab 4.7  4 x 4

Number 1

Great Truck

A great truck!

Toyota In NH

Best owned Vehicle to date!

Ranch Truck

Can Not Find a Better Bang For Your Buck Even Used!

Good Truck......until.......

Disappointed

2005 Tundra Dcab 2wd TRD

Excellent Truck

great truck overall

'05 Double Cab Tundra TRD

Great looking truck.

A 4 liter 6sp manual Tundra?

Not crazy about it.

Best truck I ever owned!

Poor Gas Mileage -  Less than EPA Rating

Best Truck on The Market

My 2006 Tundra

Great Truck

Great Truck, Poor MPG

New old Tundra

Follow up review

What a truck.

Not a work truck

Just as I expected

The Beast Truck Of All Trucks!!!

Might not buy a tundra again

Leased Tundra

By far the best truck I have ever owned!

Not exactly what I expected

From Ford to Toy

Had Better

Tundra Crewmax

2007 4-door 2-wheel drive 5.7L

4.7l Engine is BULLET-PROOF

School's still out...

A Great Work Truck

Great truck

Wish it looked as good as it drove.

No Other Truck Compares

best truck

I Love this Truck!

Trouble free

Hosed . . . 

Solid Truck. 

Great TRUCK!

It's big, it's long, and you're gonna love it.

Love this truck

All around

2003 toyota tundra

2006 Tundra XSP

No Problem -Toyota-

Another great Toyota truck!!

Best Truck I Ever Owned!

Reliable, reliable, reliable.  And comfy.

Great truck.

Solid since New

Great little/big truck

Be loved for almost 3 years

Running it till it quits

Nicest car I have ever owned

2003 Tundra Limited V8 4WD ext cab

Toyota Tundra 2003

V6 can tow it.

It fits in my garage!

Great Truck

Make Ford owners jealous

Lexus in a truck

A fine truck

13+ years old, 155820 miles and it's sold

270000 and still towing 5000lbs+

Reliable, awesome truck!  It just rocks on.

WOW!

Tundra

Love This Old Truck

Very Happy w/ My '02 Tundra

big bang

Good Value, Great Ride for a Truck!!

Great Pickup!

Great Truck, but You Need to Know...

thank Heaven for my tundra

02'tundra limited 4x4

Great truck

2002 Tundra SR5

2002 Tundra Limited Edition

Tundra 2 Dr Longbed

Tundra review

Good truck!!

Not as good as past Toyotas

So far so good.

Lived to tell

great truck

great truck!!

Beats Ford 

Driven almost daily since Dec. 1999

One of a Kind

Best Truck Ever........

Terrific Tundra

What a great truck!

My Best Vehicle Ever!

Best Truck I've Ever Owned

excellent truck

Toyota Quality

Because I Love My Truck!

Standing the test of Time!

Finest built truck

135,000 miles and loving it

Great, reliable truck

Awesome Truck

2015 Toyota Yaris is Mostly Adequate

Untitled

An impressive small car

I really love this car.

Fun Car to Drive and Easy to Park

basic and tossable

Good little car

I do not recommend the Yaris.  Buy a 9th gen. Corolla instead.

This car is awsome!

Good ECONOMIC car

So far I like it alot!

My 1st Toyota

I love my 2012 Yaris LE 2 door

Yaris Repurchased

Avoid stick shift with size 12 shoes

My 2011 Yaris

Love my 1st Toyota

2007, 08, 09 and 2010 40K service miles review

my little car

20K service miles review

Great Economy Car for Hard Times

I love my Yaris!

Great Second Car

I hate my Yaris

Yaris 2010

2010 Yaris

Works great for me

Superb Economy Car

Get one!

Excellent economy car

Car of my dreams

90,000 miles in 3 years

Great car!!

What a great buy!!

Wheelchair Accessible 

Best econo car I've ever driven

Great car for a college commuter!

GO YARIS!

great car for me--so far 25 k

Yaris does all things very well for very little $$$

Rent-a-wreck

Rented ford yaris for road trip

Next  truck will be another Tundra

Like the truck but has problems

Not a bad truck

Great Truck!

Motor Rocks

Problems Galore

Excellent

The best truck ever!

Roof rack troubles

Great Truck

Horrible truck

2010 Toyota Tundra SB 5.7 Double Cab

Love the durability

Great truck

2010 Tundra Crewmax 2wd 5.7ltr TRD  SR5

Gas Mileage

Paint is terrible

Love this Truck

Major transmissin problem

Great Truck!

Had the Rest - Now gotta Tundra

Rough and Noisy

Nice But Bouncy

Overhyped toyota garbage

Toyota prefers you get in an accident vs avoiding!

Nice but has faults

Toyota trouble  Flex fuel issues

Better Than Average

Great Truck

narender truck

Ok truck

Best truck ever owned

5 stars however not 100%

Most Reliable Truck on The Road

Nice Truck

Beats the competition

Paint issues

King of the Road

Great truck

I bought the exact Tundra I had because I loved it

Gass

The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly

2007 Scion tC

This is My New Favorite Car

Fun to drive?!

So far has been a great ride!!!

Very Decent

"Think TWICE"

Fun to Drive

Issue with clutch

Awesome Car!

New 2011 Scion tC

Fraley's Review

tC = terrible choice

decent car for the money

Great coupe

Great looking coupe

TC For Toyota Coupe.

2nd Car and it will last a while

SCION tC x3 @ 56yrs old

I own one

Excellent quality, price, & fun to drive

A new tC

Its a "Sport-ish" Car

This is a Joke

Nice Car For Money

I love my car!!

Save your money and Buy a Honda!

Nice features, POOR quality. 

I LOVE my tC!!!!

Excellent Car

Scion Tc's need rear windshield wiper

The worst car I have ever owned

Last toyota i'll buy

Great for the money!

Good First Car but Wish I Had Taken a Different Route

love my scion!

scion2012

Love my yellow tc!

Super TC

Love my tC!

Not My First Choice But the Better Choice!

2008 scion tc

So far so good

TC with TLC

Great Car

Nver too old to drive a classy sports car

Fun to drive

THE BLUE BULLET

Still going strong

First Scion

My first new car

Love This Car!

after three years Best Car I've ever owned

Best car ever!

A Great Little Car- but not Cadillac

Commuter Alternative

Fun

Great bang for the buck

Well-balanced car for the price

Great value for your money - looking for a first car?

Great Car

Good Value

wow

2009 Scion Tc (Waveline Pearl)

Great Value

Awesome Car at Awesome Price

09 TC RS 

great sporty commuter car

Built like a tank

Much improved for 2014

More than meets the eye.

Perfect first car

I bought a used 2015 Scion tC

Love and HATE Relationship

Perfect

First Car

Great Car!

Good all around car

Great Gas Mileage

Fun, but overrated

My first ever car purchase..& I would do it again!

Would buy again, oh wait I did.

Great car for the price

I Was Surprised

This is a sporty looking car only

It is what it is

For Its Class, It's the Best

Too Cheap!

This is a real nice machine!

Fantastic, Ultra-Reliable Car

When you want "city power"...

Great Car

2010 Scion TC

2007 Tc Burning Oil Excessively

Burning excessive Oil, bad rubber use, moonroof

You Get Your Bang for Your Buck!

07 Scion tC

Awesome car!

Not Much Fun

I love my car

Great Car

OK car

I love and miss my scion

First time Toyota owner

Storage space, dashboard lighting logic

Powerful Truck

You wont't go wrong buying a tundra

Converted Ford Guy

Great car to commute in

Stylish But Sluggish 

Don't Buy it!!!!!!!!!!!!

I know 4 People who have this same issue

2015 Toyota Tundra Double Cab

Best USA made truck IMO! 

Poor Leather Quality

Great for me

2015 Tundra Rocks

Best truck I've ever owned

From great to greater

San Antonio, Texas Toyota Tundra

2015 Tundra TRD PRO Double Cab (Inferno Red)

Just OK

New Tundra Double Cab 4x2

Great Truck

One mean truck

FUTURE TRUCK

Still Happy!

Best ever

Best truck EVER!

Samson (his name) Review

Very, Very Nice Truck!

First Toyota Truck

After First Month

Nice Truck but... 

2014 a big ride improvement

Just , an awesome truck

More options would be nice

New 1794 Tundra

Too much missing and poor fuel economy

Not at the mechanic shop anymore

Wishing I had my 07 Int.Tundra Storage in this 14!

Like the Tundra

Best Truck Yet

Toyota has ruined the Tundra

2014 Toyota Tundra Double Cab SR5 4.6L

It's a real truck folks!

Best full-size truck on the market.

This is what American (Texas built) quality is all about

Love my new 2014 Tundra!

In Shop After One Week

Toyota Tundra TRD Rock Warrior!

Are they Kidding?

Bad ASS Truck.,Big ,Black ,and Damn Hard to Beat!!

Review from an actual owner at 25k miles

Greatest Bang for Buck

Love This Truck

Love my Tundra

Bad tires

'11 DC Rock Warrior

Tire wear

Cross Country Travel

Zoom zoom zip away I go

Awesome Truck

Family truck

Tundra can Tow

So Far So Good

Do your research first!!

Almost Perfect

Best Truck I've owned

Great Truck

Best vehicle I have owned 

Tundra

Good Quality Truck

Like the Truck unhappy with Toyota & their platinum!

Great Performer

7th toyota

Replacement tundra

2011 Tundra

2011 TUNDRA DBL CAB 4X4 5.7

Tundra = One Of The Best Pickup Truck Buys!

Awesome Truck

Tough, reliable truck.

Toyota is the way to go

Tundra doesnt drive straight

Great truck

Alignment Issues From Day One

Best Truck on the Street!

first toyota

2013 Rock Warrior - Best truck for me

Best Truck on the Market

Tall guys will love it!

best truck i have ever driven

Thanks Toyota

Awesome Truck, downright AWFUL MPG

Can't go wrong

Best looking front end

Great Truck

It's your money!!

great truck only one problem gas tank to small 

1st truck and Disappointed

amazing

Converted domestic buyer

loud noise at start up

No more Toyotas for me!

Pleased but not completely satisfied

First Toyota

Rock Warrior

Stunning build quality. Unmatched driving experience!

Better than competition

Tow in Comfort

First time Tundra owner

Made me a repeat customer

2017 Tundra Double Door 4WD

17 Tundra Limited

Toyota Tundra SR5 TRD Package

Reliable Tundra

Bought because of reliability but need to improve

I got Gas!

Nice truck

Great vehicle with a few major disappointments

2017 Tundra 1794 Edition

V8 5.7 versus 4.6 L

Best-value pickup truck!

Best full size truck hands down!!!

Dynamite Tundra PRO

Great Truck But Changes Needed

Drove em all

1st Tundra....27000 miles

The best truck I ever had.  1794 edition none FFV

Second Tundra, Glad to be Back

Vibrator to Tundra

One of the Last Remaining Work Trucks

Buyer Beware

Great Truck - Just one problem ....

Tundra Review

Strong

PLEASE Don't even consider the Big 3.

Tundra!! Built in the USA

Best Truck Ever!

Another New Toyota

This is the best truck I have ever owned

Great Truck 2016 double cab 4x4 trd sb 5.7v8 ffv

B grade Sedan with a bed....A Grade Truck!

If only the IBC worked

Mazda 6- great value

Great car but a little noisy.

Mazda 6

second mazda

Getting hard to buy a nice manual trans. car in th

Perfect Sedan

Should come w/a bus ticket and comfortable shoes

Love my Mazda 6

beautiful red sports sedan

BEST in class

Best Car out of 12 that I have owned

2017 Mazda 6 Grand Touring with Premium Package

My Second Mazda6 - I Now Own Two

So far so great

My 1st Mazda!!!!

It is a Mazda

IA

Love it

Zoom zoom

Good

Kickass!

Test drive multiple times....

A long time dream fulfilled

Fun car with a few downsides

No availability

The sport compact for the auto enthusiast

Great performance vehicle

Best combination of fun and value!

Speedy!

WRX squared

A Few Observations - 2017 WRX w/CVT

Best choice ever!

Awesome

Rex Rules

2017 WRX Limited

Toyota for prez!

Reliable & Fuel Efficiant

Your going to love driving this car!

This is a practical sports car.

STi: An engaging driver's car

2017 WRX - WoRX for me!

2017 Subaru WRX Premium

Really enjoy my WRX!

Great performance value

2016 WRX 1 year and 26,000 miles later

Sports Sedan, 'Factory Tuner!' Muscle Car!!!

Can't Find Much to Like

The Perfect Sports Car - For the Price

A fun daily driver - but with a cost

Not suffering the Hyper Blues with this car

Swapped manual 2013 BRZ for an automatic 2016

2016 limited brz

Sports Car for the Outdoor Enthusiast!

Best Car for the price..

WRX ROX!

Finally a timing chain

It's true, all of it.

Best I have ever owned!

Three months into this near-perfect sports sedan:

2016 STI Ready to go

WRX Made My Smile Wider:)

My new ride

A great road-tripper!

Reliable, Fun

FR-S Great bang for your buck

Great All Aound Car

FR-S is FUNNNNNNN

More than expected

Fun to drive!

sports car on a budget

The BRZ is a BReeZE

2013 BRZ Limited 6 Speed Manual

Great car horrible nav/media unit

What's not to like

A pure driver's car for under 30K

A car not pass up

The perfect daily driver

2016 base model WRX

Subaru continues to refine the WRX

A perfect car

A blast to drive!!! 2016 base WRX

Love this little car!

Scion iA is a great car

+5,000 miles review

Great commuter car

Nice try. Really.

A Fun Drive in a Cool Ride

Leasing

My first car ever at a mature age....

2016 Scion iA - great looking riding sub compact

Just what I wanted

Enter every road curve with joy in my heart

Fun Fun Fun

Great car. Drives great, looks awesome.

Blast to Drive

There aren't enough corners

Why buy more?

07 Touring I

GREAT BUY!

Zoom Zoom's Little Ripper

Great fun car for the money

Best Car Since 1972

Peppy

Fun-updated

Chose a Mazda over another Honda

No regrets

You Can't Lose!

2007 Mazda 3i Touring ROCKS!

Great value!

This car is the BEST value for the money

9 Years of Ownership

Love this car

Another Great Mazda

Get one!

blind spots a problem

2006 Mazda3 Hatchback

Zoom zoomin

Fantastic car and a blast to drive!

Piece OF CRAP

Love My 3

2009 Mazda3 GT (Sedan): Quick Review

What did I buy?

New 2009 Hatchback;  SoFar, So Good

rattle trap

Poor gas mileage

Excellent Car!

Put This on Your Short List

The straight dirt

Unmatched In It's Class!

Clutch Issue

Excellent 

catastrophic clutch failure at 14k miles

Continue to love my car

5 Year Realization!

Fun Little Machine

2010 Mazda 3 Hatchback 2.5 manual

Tired of reviews from people who don't realize the full capability of the Mazda 3 S

Gets better N better 

Coming up to 100k

Awesome Mazda 3 2.5l.

30K mile UPDATE- 

The Uncorolla

A Very Fun ride at a great price

How is a car this cheap this good

Fisrt car i buy, and  im very happy with it!!!

3rd mazda, 2nd mazda3 

Traded Fit for m3,  I feel young again.

2008 Mazda 3 2.3L

Mazda 3 high milage reliablity

Fun to drive - with a few problems

Yet another engine failed

My Mazda is a Rocket Ship

Easy to drive. Easy to live with.  Worth a look

Body integrity problems

Sporty Performance AND Good Fuel Economy

My first Mazda

Mazda 6 s Sport Wagon/5-spd

mazda 6 2004  no no

If it was only rear wheel drive

2004 Mazda 6s 5-Dr

Love this Car!

Very Good Choice

Fun to drive, comfortable... concerned

Disappointed...

Do not buy this car!

Mazda, not as advertised

I've loved it for the last 4 years.

the plus-size Mazda 3

So Far It's Good

awesome mazda

Love at first Zoom

25,000 MILE UPDATE

Very Impressed

Perfect Package..Everything you want/need!!

44.6 mpg!!!

Best of Both Worlds

The Perfect Utility Commuter Car

2000 mile review

So Far an excellent car

Doubting this vehicle

Great Value

Amazing, Fun Car with great gas mileage!

60,000 MILE UPDATE

2012 Mazda 3 with 1200 miles on it now.

Mazda3 skyactiv

excellent car....wife "loves her zoom zoom"!

Way to go, Mazda!

Fun car to drive

Michael Gilchrist 

Careful with the mazda lease offers

Bought mine new in 2013

Decent economy car

Zooms past Hyundai

Great City Car

A city car for a city DRIVER !

Great Car Zoom Zoom

Mileage is tops

2013 Mazda 3 Hatchback 6-speed Review

Love my 3!

Mazda 3i Touring

If you like driving, you'll love this car

2004 Mazda 6 GT (V6 3.0L)

Love it!

diy Mazda 6s 5spd owner

Heavily used when bought, and still running strong

2004 Mazda 6s

Mostly I'm lovin my car

sickofmazda

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR!!!!

It's still a great car.

2003 Mazda6 i

Pretty hot hatch

We Love Our Mazda

pretty good so far

Bye '13 Focus, Hello Skyactiv!!

Blackhawk

Smooth and agile

Poor reliability and durability

great little zoom zoom vehicle - fun to drive

I love this car!

my new car

Time to Start Worrying?

I think we bought a bad one.

Great car

Win Some, Lose Some

Don't buy from company whose motto is "Can't guarantee how long this car will last".

My 4th Mazda, and not my last

Meant to Be

Good but Flawed

First New Car

So far, so good!

The best I have ever had

Best car I have ever owned

Fun if your transmission works

Disappointed in Ohio

BRAKE AND TRANSMISSION PROBLEMS!

Best C-Segment car with potential to be even better

Fun but Issue Prone

Only two complaints

Best car in its class

2.5 years and still enjoying this car

Exciting car to drive!

Awesome

4,000 miles in a month!!

BEST CAR EVER!!

Great car with a couple concerns

Commuting is fun again

Some early impressions

Luxury build, Mazda Pricing

Great car!

First time Mazda Owner

Nice car, just not for me.  

Still in love

More than I expected

fun fun fun

Great Car for the Money

High Value

Zoom to the Front

Fun to drive but noisy.

An excellent, beautiful handling car for the money

One of the best cars in its class.

First Mazda and loving it!

All Around Winner

Great except for the GPS...zero support from Mazda

Nice but not for me.....

Sporty and Dependable sedan!

Really Quite Impressive

Love This Car

New clutch at 20k miles

Good for 30,000, then all heck breaks loose

To much oil loss

Wow!

Great, fun car!

I've had a few problems

I Love My Blue Baby!

Honest Assessment from previous BMW own.

Getting a good, fun car can be simple!

Great used car!

Great Car for the money.  Fun to drive.

Fun but problematic 

So wonderful I bought another one

Made of Win

a detailed look

Better than the competition

Replacement Tire Suggestion

My Long Term Review After 1 Year

Mazda 3 rocks!

Running Well at 119k Miles

Fun and reliable

Believe the reviews!

Beware of this Car

Pretty Average

My Mazda 3 Experience

Long Term Honest Review

Great Ride, Great Drive, Annoying Gas Cap...

Almost 4 years later

Poor Man's BMW

138k and still going strong

Fantastic first car or commuter

Great Car

Smooth ride

'Zoom, zoom' is not just a slogan

Mazda3 i Leaves Little to be Desired

'07 Mazda 3 Sport

Happy with my choice

It's Great

Could Hold More Stuff in my Old Mazda

Fun

2017 Mazda3 GT vs 2012 Audi 3 TDI - Premium

Doesn't make much sense to me

Great car for the money

Overall a great ride!

An automobile that surprises all

Mexico Special!?

'17 Mazda3 GT

Zoom, Zoom!

This is my Second Mazda 3 GT. The first was a 2015

An automobile that surprises all

2nd Mazda 3

Love the new 2017 sedan!

Value with some perks - first impressions

Traded in my 2015 for the 2017 - Awesome decision!

Great Except for Touch Screen

Having fun with "sport" mode

Amazing

Outstanding Car

Easily the best compact for the money

I'm still alive

A Great Package!

Best Car Out There

I would buy another one!

Great car - economical too!

No Contest

Great fun, and reasonably practical

Awesome Sedan, Great Value

The little Mazda that could

2006 Mazda3 Grand Touring Hatchback

first newer Mazda for me not bad at all. 

Very impressed!!

Roomy, Sporty, GREAT fuel economy

Recent Owner, Not a Drop of Buyer's Remorse

Great alternative to the Audi A3

Great Ride and Handling

Two Weeks In

An awesome car

More than Happy

Might as well be a BMW

Zoom zoom with our Francostaff

Truly a Wonderful Vehicle

An excellent compact car with a few annoyances

Very happy with my Mazda3

Excellent crash performance

Mazda for Life

Love the car although it has it's minor negatives.

Beautiful car

My second FRS

Great athletic car for daily driving

Zoom Zoom Indeed

Love my Mazda

Updated Review 
Only 2 things keep this car from being epic.

Traded in Lexus IS for 2016 Mazda6 GT and love it!

Great value. Love my Mazda 6

Four door sports car

Sexy Car, Great Handling -- Needs a Turbo

Another great Mazda

Had me at hello...

For the love of driving.

Mazda's got a winner, now so do I

Very please with purchase

zoom-zoom

sweet car

Bang for the Bucks

Great Car / Great Value

love my 6

Shifty

Best Kept Secret Out There

Facing Same Problems As Many Others.

Great performance & Gas Mileage

Despite the points I would not buy

ZOOM-ZOOM

Goodbye Mazda

A Decent Choice

Mazda6 V6 replaces Altima

Buffeting

Real Zoom Zoom

Really great car!

CamCordTima, Drive one of these!

Great Car

Mazda 6 Transmission Problems

little disappointed

Bought the car new.

Really decent vehicle

Zoom Zoom Mazda 6

Looks Hot, Runs Hot

"New" remains after full year of use!

The car for tall people.

Great for commutes, but not fun

Not a family car

Reliable, No-Frills Daily Ride

On the Fence about Mazda

Serious brake problems

Drive Mazda 6 before buying anything in this class!!!

Could be great but few issues mar the experience

Best Midsize Sedan 

Initial thoughts

Astonishing value

The best! 

Great car, would buy again

A thing of beauty

This is one great car. Better than expected.

7000 miles and four times back to the dealership

Mmmmmaaaazzzdddaaa!!!

Very Impressed...!

Not quite an Audi or BMW but: WOW!

Just LOVE this car!  2014 Mazda 6 Grand Touring

Reliable

Comfortable but....

Just love it

Happy customer

We get great gas mileage

XC60 T6 in a class of it's own

Great car

Tire Problem

BLIS Problem

Don't get the BLIS!

Wow Our First Volvo and We're Impressed

Our XC60 Nightmare

XC 60: My favorite Volvo yet!

Love It!  Thanks Edmunds!

Excellence in most areas except the NAVI

Disappointed owner

AWESOME TECHNOLOGY

Very Impressed

Disappointed

Nice car but missing a few options

Great SUV

Good car

Best of Europe

After 2 weeks, I love it!

Love my new Volvo

Monday car?

Typical Volvo !!

great car

1998 VOLVO V90 WAGON

Great wagon - holds tons of stuff

Volvo XC60 T6 AWD

great car and value

Volvo scores on Versatility

Great Car... Horrible support from Volvo

Second Volvo and Even Happier

Good for family with only 1 child

Best luxury SUV ever

Steamn  in STL

UDATED   Goodbye Lexus Rx350 and Hello Volvo XC60

Best car out of the 15 I've ever owned

Love the car when it's not in the shop...

Best seats ever, buy this SUV for the seats alone

Blood-Blooded Arrow!

1998 V90

AC service every year

long-term experience

love this car

Best car for the money out there

All-around Family SUV

Very happy with XC60 T5 after 6 months.....

First and Definitely Last Volvo

Stealth deal.

Ed's Survey

Love My Car

Utilitarian luxury

Best car I've ever owned, best new car experience

Outstanding

Fun to drive   but falls short on MPG

VOLVO  XC60 T6 DYNAMIC,  2017

After 1300 miles, learning more about my XC60

stylish

Great road trip suv

Loving it!

A Premium Crossover that won't break the bank

Updated Review

Great Vehicle

It is an expensive car.

Solid, Comfortable, Stylish

V 60 Cross Country wagon is great!

Very Hard To Beat

Bumpy and Uncomfortable

Cute little wagon for 2 adults

A Safe, Comfortable, Practical Luxury Car

Well worth the money &everything is well designed!

A bumpy ride

Waited all my life

Safety and comfort

A Swedish beauty queen

Well worth the money &everything is well designed!

2016 T6

Problems with ECO+ mode

Love the Drive-E T6

Great car for a long commute

I love my car!

Love my little wagon!!!

Smiling

Feels like driving a Tank

Comfy, yet bugggy

Great car

I'd love it if my back weren't killing me!

Impeccable road manners; a few minor nits

Recently purchased 2012 XC60 R-Design

Great Experience so far.

better options are out there!

Best Decision Ever!!!

Awesome

Myriad electronic problems

Love this car

You can't go wrong with the Volvo XC60 T6

Not too shabby

WOW this is a great car, fast fast fast 

Fun car to drive

Volvo xc 60

Xc-60 Turbo Review

LOVE IT

Best Luxury SUV For the Money

Pretty but full of problems

XC60 - Lookin' good

What did I get myself into?

25,000 mile engine

What a great vehicle

Great Handing

Great car for the money

A reliable car that I want to like more than I do

Wow...and we thought the XC 70 was great!

Beware the OIL CONSUMPTION ISSUE

Go for a long test drive

Volvo got it right!

2011 Volvo SUV

Love this SUV / Crossover! Better than expected!

Satisfied Owner

Best car I have ever owned

Happy Volvo XC60 Owner

best ever

Stealth performance and style

Slick Ride with Great MPG

Best car in my 30 years of driving!

3.2 non-turbo with AWD is fantastic all-around

A nice alternative to the snobmobiles

Buy It!

2010 at 80K

Owned for 2 years, mixed bag

Great car...at first....

YAH HOOOOO!

Maintenance can be expensive

First one I've seen in person is ours...

My 2nd XC 60

Attractive and fun to drive

Skip the Tech Package

An Excellent Vehicle

Great SUV Crossover

The good, bad, and ugly, i.e. the truth after ~20k

soo much car for your money!

Mazda 6 GT Winner over the Mid-size Vehicles

Still love getting in it and driving it wherever!

Mazda's Fusion Fighter!

8000 mile road trip

The Silver Streak

Great car, just wish it was better quality

My A/C has already stopped working

Great Car

Defects Make Buying Pointless

Excellent car, Great Price

2015 Mazda 6 Touring

Vast improvement over 2nd generation 6

Quiet, smooth riding car if you just ask

2000-mile review

Mazda6 I Sport Soul Red

Mazda 6 at 12k miles

Very Impressed

Mazda 6 i Sport Update--7 months later

Great looking car, lots of tech, good mileage too; but need more power.

Exceptional Car

2 years later... REGERTS (yes that is correct)

The Non Mainstream Sedan

Mazda 6 Sport 6-spd manual

Fun and practical

Love Love Love! Hands down! On my third Mazda!

FUN TO DRIVE!!!

Best Value in a Sporty Sedan

Drive this before buying Camry

Most dangerous car I have every owned

Manual transmission survives

Zoom Zoom!!

I kind of miss my Mazfa 6 

160,000 and counting!

Volvo Engine Seizing due to sludge 

XC70 Electrical Problems

2003 Volvo XC

Lemon 

Best All Around!

The Wagon of Choice!!

Total Package

The Car for all Seasons

2006 XC70

Great car, No key entry to rear hatch

My most perfect ever -- of 8!

Definitely a Volvo - Worth the $

Great car for a Salesman.

Nice car

Great Car

Too many problems

Good solid car.

Had many car...this is the one!!!!

Reliable and practical

Best AWD Wagon on the Market

Love our volvo

Best car i've ever owned

Can't have it all

love volvo, not sure about this one...

NEVER AGAIN!

VERY Disappointed

10 Months later:  XC70 Impressions

Happy, so far

Lovin It!

Hate this car

You won't know unless you ask

Great All Around Car

tire sensors

Great Vehicle

Almost did not happen

Great car

Refined "Wagon"

Great so far!

A surprise 

Great XC again

Very fun to dirve

More than expected

Why I just purchased a second 2011 XC70 T6

Great Ride

The Real Swagger Wagon

Sleeper T6

I LOVE my T6!

Consider the T6 if you're looking for an XC70

Looks good, feels great, but...

A beautiful wagon

I like this car

Mountain Performance Vehicle

Top Quality in Every Way

Three years later

I can't believe I bought a Volvo

Love my Volvo

Excellent niche vehicle

Volvo has customer service issues

Plenty of Performance, Value and Luxery

My first impressions after 700 miles

My Third XC70

FURSTRATION Volvo lost a good customer

Test Drove the 2012 XC70 t6

Love my new car

Solid, Smooth and very powerful

Swedish buy

After 3 Months...We're still in love!

T6 AWD Rocks!

Edmunds is wrong -- this is way better than an SUV

A great car!, Solid and very comfortable

Solid like always

Stay away

The car just 'fits'

Nice hauler and 21 mpg!

Outstanding

Excellent  family vehicle

2008 XC70 

Wow - what a great car

2008 Volvo XC 70 Basic

More than happy

Great Wagon

Couldn't be better, very solid car

This is an excellent Automobile strong.

Solid Choice

Lucky lucky Lucky

At the end of my lease

Great Car!!!!

2008 xc 70

Middle-of-the-road all around performer

Surprisingly Good

Very Pleased

Great Vehicle!

Update to an earlier review

Fantastic Volvo

**No Issues Here**

No Problem(s)

Great car

Hold out for a T6!

Mixed Bag... Love the car but...

Upgrade

Electric network broke after 3 days

Jack of all trades

Leaping Transmission

Superb

Workhorse Wagon

GET THE TURBO!

Don't Buy a Volvo

Great Compromise

Nice Car

Safe, luxurious and sporty

Volvo

love it

My 5th Volvo Wagon, My Last.

I got a deal

Very Refined

Worst car I ever owned

Go for it!

A Smooth Ride

GL's XC70

Disappointed

(Almost) Everything a Car Should Be

Glad I chose the XC70

2007, The Best Year for XC70

Gas and Tires

Fun 0n the roads of Sweden.

My new volvo XC70

Best Car I've Ever Owned!

Don't Let This One Get Away

I love this car!! I own a 2006 and 16!

Safety First

"I now take the LONG way everywhere I go!"

A Super Solid Choice

Reunited

Beautiful new XC70

Best Volvo Yet

good wagon

another beautiful Volvo

A wonderful CAR

The best balanced X-Country and comfort 

Exceptional automobile!

computer problems AGAIN

Not the Volvo it used to be

Great for an outdoorsy on-the-go family!

great, but....

Great car

A Winner for the Long (and Large) Haul

The best car I have ever owned!

Disaster

too technical for its own good

Volvo'sBest

Best of the Breed

AWD Letdown

Electrical problems frequent

Bought 2 will buy more

A Solid Performer

Great Car

I"d buy another one !

Former Volvo for Lifer who own's two xc-70 wagons

Needs some work

Not an Audi

2005 Volvo XC70

Great car, lousy tire options and MPG

Happy

NASA on EARTH

I love it!

I am in love with my car

expensive to maintain

Best car I have ever owned!

Beware of the Bills 

What a great Car

Stylish and comfortable

2004 XC Wagon with 199,000

Soccer mom car does me proud

Fantastic Car

Best Car I've driven

Just a great car

Don't leave without extended service con

Owner of Two XC70s speaks

comfort

Wish I didn't get it...

253,400 miles and still in the passing 

Love my XC70, can be expensive though

My 03 XC/70

My little stylish Swedish utility tank!

Our '03 XC70 is outstanding!

Zoom-zoom refinement at a bargain price

Love my Mazda6!

Be careful with this one....

So far so good - status update

Mazda 6 is a lemon

Good overall

2009S Grand Touring

So Far So Good

Think twice before buying

Great choice

First Mazda Ever Is Best Car I Ever Had!

Great car, if you like large

Puzzled

Great car for the money

Still Like It

Brand New - Still Reviewing...

Great Car

Four door with flair

Fun, but no 30 mpg!

Love my Mazda 6  ITP

Bang For Your Buck

I love it!

Not as Good as an Accord

Melting Tail Lights  - If you're out of warranty - You're Out of Luck

Getting better all the time...

If you can't afford a Jaguar

The one to have!

Update...now had car 2-years

Has been a great riding and long trip car.

Great Car!

Tons better than my 2008 Honda Accord

wifeys 2nd mazda 6

This car saved my life

Good, good, good.

You need deep pockets if driven on salted roads!

Big Problems with 05 XC70

Best of Volvo

Volvo - For Life

I love my XC70

They got me "For Life"

Little Disappointed, transmission?

4th review

Wonderful Vehicle--Reliable & Fun

Mazdaspeed 6...  Love it!

Awesome Car!

Great Car for the Money

Seriously, get this car.

Bulletproof! 

Outstanding "Sport" Sedan, Practical!

Another Zoom-Zoom

1st week review - 4 of 5 stars

Excellent Car, can't be beat for the $$

2007 Mazda 6 base model

One Great Car

Mazda 6i Sport Value edition

2007 Mazda 6 S 3.0 V6

Zoom - Zoom

Bought mine at 150,000. Still feels like new.

Mazda 6 - So Nice we got it Twice!!

Solid performance from this Great Feeling Ride

Sporty Middy

My new baby

Really Like It!!

3 Months later

Great Car for the $

Fun sports sedan!

Most reliable car I ever bought

Great value

Think I Bought a Lemon!

Not too shabby

WOW!

One week with new car

2008 mazda 9 yrs later

Belly flop

Disappointed

A Pleasing Alternative to Ford, Nissan, Honda

The Sedan You'd Swear Is A Sports Car

Great Potential--Falls short on quality

After one year and a half

An engaging, practical, fun car for driving lovers

Second new Mazda, love them.

Best Car EVER! BMW is only other car I can compare to! 

Impressed

Not what I thought a Mazda would be

SUPER RELIABLE & FUN TO DRIVE!!!

Be careful over 100k

Love my Mazda 6 (5-Door Hatchback)

Good but not Great...

Ready to run away

The new love of my life

Can I buy another, please?

Anyone Else Experiencing Electrical Issues??

The cats got my tounge...

Unbelievably poor performance in snow.

cnt wait for summmmmer

Wonderful car for long commute.

Good Buy

Greatest Deal Ever!!

Couldn't be any happier

Saved our lives

mazda 6 good but lowsy interior

Something different in this segment

The Pros and Cons of a Mazda6

205K Original owner

True Grand Touring

2005 Mazda 6 Sports Wagon Review

Great car, other than a rust spot

Moderte

True Zoom

Great handling but be careful over 150k!

Lots of pros and cons

at 68K need to get new car

A good car with some things to know

A good BUY

Drive it 'till the wheels fall off

Reliable except for A/C

Very nice car >> so far:)

Much has gone wrong

Disappointed

Not a bad car

NO PROBLEMS AT ALL!!!

Volvo Drivers Wanted

The Ultimate RWD Volvo

Amazing vehicle will last 

Still Love my Volvo S90  After 8 Years

Classic Swedish Style And Grace

Volvo's Timeless Flagship

what to like about hte s90

Good Car

Finally Got One! Worth The Wait!

Full Package

Volvo S60

Run away

The Lupus Car

fun but slow

Last Of The Iconic Volvo's

Ok on Volvo S90

Why it's Good

Exceptional ride but expensive to maintain

Good car ... too bad the value drops

I HATE this car!

Not bad

I love it!

A most unreliable great car 

Great car

Worst vehicle I have ever own

Love / Hate of a V10 TDI Touareg

Epitome of a Love/Hate Relationship

Better have deep pockets for repairs

Terrible car to own

No more ICE

Poor Tire Performer

Total Electrical Failure!

2004 VW Touareg

A great SUV

heap of rubbish

Super sport wagen!

Just a Great Car!

One fine car/oophs sportwagen for the money!

My next car will be Japanese!

Without peers under 30K.  A truly great car.

my great touareg

Flawed Design

2004 Volkswagen Touareg is $ out-of-control

Love my Tourareg

wouldnt recommend to my worst enemy!

e-Golf is an unreliable nightmare

e-Golf is a fraud.

9 months of ownership and still smiling

Recently leased 2015 E-golfs.

One more limitation of VW

Do NOT Buy This Car

I'll never have to pull into a gas station again

E-Golf - Be Ware It is A Newly Introduced Car

Gas free diet!

Really like it

Great, but know what you're getting into.

Love this car - never buy gas/oil/smog check again

Time Delayed Charging Feature-Forced to Use CARNET

City Stealthmobile BEV

Great EV -- Extremely Pleased

Love my Tiguan

Among the best cars I've owned.

Most unreliable car ever!!

Great fun to drive, agile, but expensive on repairs

Great, but what's with the gas mileage?

What a POS

First VW may be my Last

450 miles and stuck in garage

Be Warned - Tiguan TSI Engine Major Failure

Repairs started at 30,000

Major Disappointment-horrible in snow

2011 Tiguan 2.0L turbo rattles!!!

Sporty, solid, unique

My Lemon

What more could you ask for

Best all around car i've ever owned!

Great little wagon

no other car in its class

"Show us a more well-rounded vehicle" - C&D

The car we have been waiting for.

V6 killer

Regret Decision

Fun to drive, handsome, good MPG,  happy owner!!

2 Year / 30K Mile Update - Perfect!!!

Very Pleased with CC

2010 CC Sport owner for 1 yr

Still Love Driving my CC!

Best car yet...

Best one yet!

Good not great

Almost perfect

Great car unless you use reverse

Disappointed

Best of both worlds!

Great until it gets cold outside!  DO NOT BUY

A sweet shifting ride

The absolute worst car I have owned since....

Nice car with bad reliability issues

Love the car - suggest the manual trans

Mercedes Nightmare

2010 CC VR6 4Motion

Great car to drive but super expensive to own and maintain

I chose a 2010 CC over a 2009 Lexus IS250!

Love My cc

The Underated VW CC

VW Convertible Bug

Great little car

So much fun and a great ride

fun to drive!

Love/hate this Beetle

CC Gets an A

Generally pleased

One year later, my CC still rocks!

Beautiful car saved my life!

steering/alignment

Excellent Engine; poor interior mechanics

Beetle Convertible Defect

Such a fun Convertible

So far so good

Das auto das-aster

AWFUL

Nothing but disaster

WATCH THE GAS GUAGE GO DOWN AS YOU DRIVE

Very satisfied with the CC

Going on 4 years

A waste of money

Looks can be deceiving

No Longer a VW Amabassador

WOW

Nice but expensive to maintain

Wow! Great convertible! I'm glad I took a test drive!

A nice but poorly built car

Cute car, but not the best quality

German Tecnology at its Best

wife's beetle

Money Pit

Six letters....DSG & TDI

Very Solid SUV

Tiguan problems

3 Tiggs

Stay away from Beetle

My Cup Cake

My first Bug since 1970. That Bug cost me $2070.

Turbo-cab!

Surprising!!!

3.6 Vr6 4 Motion is the way to go

Stay far far away from these cars!!!!

After 6 Years of Driving

2009 VW CC-Sport

That's a VW?

Great SUV

This Car Rocks!!

Tiguan Rocks- No Buyer's Remorse Here!

Best In Class!!

fun to drive but will cost you!

Everyone should buy this car.

How does this not catch on?

Best family car for the money!

Great car (aside from the emissions...)

I love this car more everyday!

Love it! 

Air Condition

best in class of small SUV's

Safest car you can buy

Shake....Rattle ....Roll

Excellent Choice

Love it

Nothing but problems

It is spacious inside!

2011 VW Tiguan SE - Fits the big and tall!

Best Vehicle I have owned

worry about quality

Lots of issues with the tiguan

DO NOT BUY - LEMON

POOR PERFORMANCE ENGINE

DO NOT BUY A TIGUAN!!MONEY PITS

I so wanted to love it...

My best driving car ever... but I can't keep it

So Many Problems!!!!

Better build than our BMW!

Fuel injector issues/money pit

Stay far away

Great if you only want to lease it but donӴ keep

At 70K what you could expect

Some of these reviews are like looking in a mirror

Where are you guys shopping at?!

Love the vehicle - hate the repair bills.

Been a great car for us

Almost Bought the Porshe!

Touareg 2004 review

Un-Reliable after 50K miles!

HUNK OF JUNK

Very disappointed!!

Lots of Problems...where do I start?

I will not get another VW again - 

It's Like My Drivable Apple

A Steal in 2016

DO NOT BUY AN EOS!....DO NOT BUY A VOLKSWAGEN!

I love Veronica!

Buyer Beware!!!

Super fun ride!  You'll hate gas cars driving this

16V

I love this car!

Keeps going and going

I love Jettas!

Excellent value for the dollar

Ultimate commuter

Good reliable car

My favorite car

Fun Euro Looks and Ride

Experience over Five Years

Coolest car in the world

They don't make 'em like they used to...

Great car

An great electric car crippled by zombie software

Love This Car

Fun electric commuter car

Poor Man's Audi

1997 Volvo S90

My "Old Faithful" S90

Better than expected

Best Car Ever (for Me)

153,000 miles and still tight as a drum

I love my S60

My Volvo

S60 IS THE BEST YOU CAN BUY

Volvo for Life

Jetta Diesel

Volkswagon: Driver unwanted!

My first car / everlasting love

You get what you pay for

THE CAR JUST TO OWN

Thor II

Last of the best of the Volvo's

Service costs $1000 no matter what

great touring car

Great, predictable car

97 Volv0 S90

S90's Rule

for life? not my life

Volvo luxury

A Verrry nice money pit.

Favorite Car Ever!

The Last of the Swedish-Made

Excellent Buy

Great looking car, too much maintenance

Volvo for DIVA

Find a good mechanic

Watch out for transmission problems

My Lemon

Hi Mileage Used - So Far So Good

so NOT for life!

Great for all

Another Great Buy... 

What a surprise, a joy to drive

Ford Should butt out

volvo s60

S60 at Altitude

Volvo S60

Not the car for me

a good allround car

Great Car For The Money!

Owned mine for 8 years

All good and hard to say goodbye

Our 2002 Volvo S60 2.4T

Very nice car

Reliable car, never had any major major prolems

Honeymoon is Over!!!

6 months and 5,000 miles

Sporty, Well Equipped Drivers Car

Outstanding!!!

Head turning VW CC

CC burns oil

My only regret was that it was leased not bought

CC Sedan Lux VR6

CC has its moments

Great power

Lots of bang for the buck!

Honda to VW-CC and no regrets

First week ownership impressions

2 years on and still loving the car

2012 VW CC Sport-Own the Road..!

2012 Lux Plus

Awesome value, stylish sport

Sexy, Sporty, Upscale & Affordable, A Home Run!

Nearly 80k miles, and a new issue everyday.

Rarely Seen

Great car alternative to many higher-priced luxury vehicles!

CC is an elegantly designed car priced exceptionally well

Best In Class

Simply Outstanding

Car feels more expensive than it is

Owned SAAB Turbos - CC Much Much Better

CC burns oil

Wow...On a Whim!

Perfection Achieved

good value

vws neva die

One great car.

Love this car!!!

MkII

Volkswagen GL

Fun Little Car

Sweet little car that's indestructable

1997 K2 Golf

This car is....   ok

Woo Hoo K2

It's the little things...

Good car but time 2 move on

'97 VW Golf GTI

I love This Car

Great little bargin

A Good Car, Minus the Molding

Golf K2- So fun to drive

Good basic transportation

Hot Hatch!

Great econo car!

i'm tired of calling for a tow truck!

Wow...

First Car

I love my vdub

Efficient transportation

piece of garbage

Last of the bad designs?

Attractive disaster

Great car!

Good car, sad to see it go

value engineered

No More VW

Golf III Sport -- A sweet little car!

A So-So Car

My 95 flash red golf sport

reliable, gas efficient, swift

I love my Golf III!

Great little car

Volkswagen Does not Dissapoint!

It's a Great VW

bad choice

Hot

Fun For a Big Guy

Fun to drive

Overall a great car!

Hooked Up...

the golf cart

Great car - I Bought It Twice

Good and Bad

Good car as long as nothing breaks

Great little car!

Typisch Deutsch

Awesome Car

Great overall car!

Reliable build to last good performance

From Riches to Rags

Buy Me

VW Golf

No Complaints; Love it

96 Golf

my review

Bad Experience.

best little car ever

Time for a new car..but happy with vw

great car for little cash!

Practical commuter

great little car

Great Car!

I hate this car

Buy Something Else

Volks

its a hoot!

CC Wheat

Just beautiful!!!!!!!!!! 

I just love it!

Great car with some drawbacks

LEMON!!! STAY AWAY! 

Don't waste your time nor money

Junk the DSG

Run if you don't want expensive repairs

Bang for the Buck 6 Speed manual

Hate the transmission

Awesome

Sound car but......

Can't stop staring at it

This car feels more expensive than it is

Great car

Fun - but Expensive to maintain

Worth it...

An athlete in an Armani

hard to beat

Superior

Drives like a VW

Consistently Superior

Oustanding Value

You can truly CC the value

22,000 miles and very happy

CC Rider...

Love my CC

POS in nice skin

My CC

LIEBE

VW is horrible

Great Car

Awesome Good

Good Price, beautiful interior, but car has issues.

So far so good

Great looking German 'coupe' with solid performance

vr6 4motion - 4 years later

Great sports sedan

So Under Rated

Thrilled with the CC

Very good for 30 months, then......

2 weeks in

1 yr with a CC update year 3

Awesome Sports Sedan at Excellent Value

Underrated and overlooked

Luxury on a budget take 2

POOR REAR SUSPENSION

RLine not meant for big bottoms

Great, so far

Old timers need "cool" too.

End of Cycle is A Good Choice

Automotive antidepressant!

Great car

Totally unreliable.

Give the Golf a chance!

Fun, great milage, but unreliable

Overall, A good buy.

Musta used Elmer's glue.

Buy one, you'l love it!

Great Car

Not quite as bulletproof as promised

My First impressions

3rd Diesel/7th VW

BAD,BAD,BAD

High Repair Costs

Super car

Love this car

Love To Golf

Golf TDI ROCKS!

Happiness = Golf TDI

Golf TDI ROCKS!

Good for crashes

Got Quality?

Buyer's Beware

Great Utilitarian Vehicle 

Best car I owned

Love that Turbodiesel!

Efficient and Reliable

Always thought VW were known for their reliabilit.

I'm very glad i bought this car

Constant costly repairs

VW is a whole new standard of automobile

Great Little Car

Best Bang for Your Buck

For mpg/power mix there's nothing better

Fun little car

Corrosion on engine

Big Car in Little Car Body

Golf -  fun, solid small car

Great Car

2011 Golf 4 dr 2.5

Excellent Car For Around $25K - 

Happy to be back with VW again

Groovy Golf

one of the best cars on the road everyone loves it

Tempted To Buy Another

Mileage champ and fun to drive!

I still like car after 2 yrs

2001 Golf GLS

Fun and Practical

Awsome!

Simply BEST in Class!

Love this car

4th vw

My third Volkswagen Golf

My umpteenth VW and probably the best yet!

I love this car!

I love this car

happy so far

1st Volkswagen

Great Car To Drive

Love the Golf

110,000 Miles and still no issues

TURBO RELIABLITY?

My VW Lemon...

Piece Of Crap

QUICK AND FUEL EFFICIENT...but DSG confused.

4 Door Golf

Best Car I Have Ever Owned

I love my car!

Great car . . . BUT

Above average car

Great Car...but it's like an iPhone

Great value and it's like owning a "Mac" car

Great ride

So far, excellent

18 Times and still counting

What a disappointment!

Too many issues

Simply The Best

Problems, Problems

Happy Eos owner

Best money I have spent on a car

Love That Eos

The Best Choice I've Made

Great Car

I Love This Car!

Eos User

Eismeer Blue

It's all in the details

Loads of Fun - Great Value

So far, so good

Love/Hate TDI relationship

Love it... emissions and all.

TDI best diesel available (better than EPA)

Love my cute car!

Delightful Ride

'07 Volkswagon Eos

Eos Experience to Date

Takes Your Breath Away!

4th VW, won't buy another one

Still having fun!

The best fun I ever had

LOVE MY EOS!!

Avoid this Vehicle

Fun Car

Lemon of 2008

Don't buy this car!

Simply The Best

great then ok then bad

New EOS Owner

Perfect Car for me

Buy A Warranty and have fun

Not Buying VW Again

VW Golf

EXCELLENT

turbo seals cause oil consumption

Very Disappointed 

Great Car

Goodbye Sweet "Happy"

Who knew VW had a 10 year warranty on the paint

Wish I hadn't...

Fun and economical ride

This car is really fun

DO NOT BUY VW

dont buy an eos

0 problems 100% fun

TDI - Dirty Emissions

First and last VW car.

Technically Deficient but a great small car !

Best car I ever owned. It will be my last

lots of miles, lots of fun

Best car I've ever owned!

I love my little car!

Suspect Ride

Sweet Vehicle

Just got it

tornado red tdi

Perfect Alternative to the Average Economy Car

Fun car for the money, but you get what you pay for

Amazing car!

Should be a great car but time will tell

Happy Golf Girl

Developed vibration after a month and VW wont help

GTI Lite

Impressed

Audi quality at discounted price

2015 TSI SEL 4 Door Hatchback 1.8L

the Class of this Class

Reviewing the car and not the corporate lies

Practically Perfect in every way

Never Look Back

Volkswagen makes a profit at this price?

Amazing value!

Fuel Tank Swooshing Sound

Great Car

Must drive!

Far and away the best in class

Bestnof both world

tdi is a secret

No regrets

I love this car!

I love my new VW!

In a class all it's own.

Hole in One

Best Car I've Ever Had

A Solid Little Car

Great Car Bad Clutch

2010 Golf TDI 4dr Silver

My first VW!

VW beat 'em out

If FUN to DRIVE is high on your list of priorities!

From BIG to small

LOVE this Car!!!

What a Great Golf!

An Audi in Wolfsburg Clothing

Great value!

All the praise is true!

A little expensive but worth it. 

Why consider anything else?

Fun and frugal !

This is a great highway cruiser

Love it!

Best Car I have ever owned...

My dream car but better

Love the mileage

Love my TDI

Everything was going OK until.....

Extremely Reliable

Very Happy- VW Golf TDI

2010 Golf TDI Endures

Fun and Efficient

Does What You Need

Room for the Linebacker

2013 Volkswagen Golf TDI w/ DSG automatic

Golf TDI (DSG auto)

A Better Car Than Most Think!

3K mi in - 2 months

EPA Has Neutered this Car

Great Car

Took a risk. 

More solid and spacious then it looks like

Great engine/Gearbox shonkybuild quality

Carbon Build Up

VW Service Stinks!

Excllent Buy

Nifty GTI

Love this car!

Too many problems

Good for the long haul. 

golf 2005

A car to park outside...

A Strange Love Affair

A lot of Car in a Small Package

Unhappy

Disappointing

Wretched little thing

2005 GLS TDi

Been a Year of Highs

Best car for gas mileage

Great Golf TDI

Best Fuel Economy

Love the Golf

Great Car

Try it, you'll like it

Great Car!!

The only car my kid ever knew

Golf Lover

GOLF TDI!

A genuinely great car!

Fun Car to Drive, Lacks Performance

Love the Handling, hate the problems.

Great for 30,000 miles, then problems

DO NOT BUY, VW - very streeful

GOLF - Gorgeous-Outstanding-Lovable-Fun

Lemon

Golf Grrl

Great Car

Fergie

Good Car

The best car I have ever owned

Interior falls apart in 2 years

No good

Best car I've owned

70 mpg

Golf TDI

Awesome German Egineering

VW - Rocks!

Best MPG for the Buck

My baby

TDIs are the greatest!

1st 1,000 miles and still loving it

Excellent Quality

Amazing Little Car

Excellent Little Car!

Diesels rule

Buy a diesel! Then convert it to HHO hyb

I love it! 40 mpg minimum

Horrible

1st Month - No buyer's remorse yet - LOL

Exceptional Golf

Mixed bag, love the car, but hate repair record

Get it

Full

This is a fantastic automobile

Unity

So Glad I Bought It

Vault solid  and great value.

Built to drive and have fun

A Workhorse with a High Quality Finish

Don't understand the Hybrid Hoopla

Can't keep it on the road.  Money Pit

Nick's Review

My Golf 

Love/Hate for me too

German engineering is a myth

2000 VW Golf GLS 2.0L 115hp

don't support saudi arabia? buy this car

Brokenwagen

Love the Golf but resolve the EPC issue

Fantastic Buy!

Golf is a much better car than the Jetta

Love to drive it

Nice little city car

2000 VW Golf GLS TDi

If only it would work reliably ...

It's Great ... If It's Working

Still lovin' it.

good car so far

So far So good

lemonade anyone?

Golf GL

Less room, more fun...

Great value for the dollar.

TDI just keeps on going

Forget Jetta, the Golf is the bomb

This car is the best!!!

Good car to have, has lots going for it

I love this car

Worth every penny and more!

Look elsewhere

VW Golf pros and cons

Japanese for me

HIGH fuel economy+LOW quality=Little fun

Please consider the following

love my golf

the little puppy that could

Driving fun combined with cargo space!

Crash Test

Good run

Poor choice

AWESOME CAR!

'02 Volkswagen Golf - Slow

Great car!

Single person's dream

First Diesel

Golf

I love Hatchbacks!

Not At All Happy

great daily driver

Fun to drive, easy to live with

Fun and reliable so far

Cheaper than what we expected

Volkswagen Golf K2

VW has made me believe...

Gotta love it

This car is a dream come true

4 years later....

The Golf is a

Good car... until Maintenance and Parts

First 10 year car!

Zippy golf is way cool

I LOVE THIS CAR!

Sensibilty, Reliability, and Fun

Love the Car, not the service

HunkaJunk

Stay away from Volkswagon Golf!

It's a Lemon

1999 Volkswagen Golf 

Nice Grocery Getter

A TRUE VOLKSWAGEN LOVER 

VW Automatic - gas hog

Fun to Drive

Very safe hardtop

Avoid It - Traded Mine In

FUN LITTLE CONVERTIBLE

Best Car Ever!

Great Car!

After my Corvettes

2016 Golf R

Simpicate and Add Less Weight

Fun...

Golf R has got it all!

Screamin' T

Great car, functionality, features & value

Good car

Finally!

Vonderful Volkswagon Vagon

Bumpy ride

fun wagon with some quality issues

Blind spot monitor is unsafe

Former CR-V owner

Great Value

Diamond in the rough

The GTI is Ausgezeichnet! (Excellent!)

A Great car with some issues

Awesome car, Buy It

I absolutely love this car

GTI + APR = bliss

Awesome Hot Hatch!

Great Value

GTI is "aufregend" (exciting)!!

Value for Money

Mustang GT w/Performance Pack to 2016 GTI SE

99 mph in the 1/4 mile, 39 MPG real world economy

GTI--What took me so long?

End of a mid-life crisis

From a Camaro ss to a GTI

Das Review

Many things to love, but a couple of weird quirks

As good as everyone said it was

The Swiss Army knife of sporty cars

Performance Plus

A plesant suprise to something different

Launch Edition Delivers its Promise! 10K Miles

great car

TSI SE a good replacement for the TDI Sportwagen

A good value

Lemon law?

'17 VW Golf Sportwagen TSI 4Motion S v VW Alltrack

Goodby 2004 Outback!

Poor Quality

Duly Impressed After a Sportwagen TDI

A happy surprise

So much car for the money!

It's just a loaner.......

The  2017 VW Golf Sportwagen TSI - It's a winner!!

Big fun, small price

Awesome!!!

Impressions of my 2015 Golf GTI

fassttyaa

The worst car I have ever owned

2nd VW

3 Months and Still In Love

The best value , real sport and a wagon !

Pleasure to Drive!

Back in a VW Once Again

Great Fun

Warranty is worthless, services insanely expensive

Amazing car, best car I ever owned

the smile maker

Impulse Purchase Gone Wrong

Golf R

A total blast

Performance, comfort, luxury, & practicality

Performance, comfort, luxury, & practicality

Man, what fun!!!

DSG Failure at 1692 miles!

6K miles and completely in love

Great car, super fun to drive

Tunnel Traffic Hatch Back Under $25K, Awesome!

Exceptional

2017 rrrrrrrrr is a true pirates car

A real "Q" ship

Scary quick.

Just an absolute riot

Fun car

The Ultimate Commuter 

My perfect all-around car

Love my hot hatch!

Unbelievable car! But beware...

Great commuter, great value

A magnificent true driver's car

2013 Golf R

This car is a blast to drive

I won't grow up

Loving it!

VW Eos Executive........comfortable in it's own skin

Florida

Finally, designers got it right!

Most Unreliable Car We Have Owned

Bad Choice

Bad Trans.  Twice.  Plus other major problems

Fun to drive, but think before you buy

Fun convertible to drive!

A Solid Winner, 2012 VW Eos

Beware of Defective Water pumps

LOOOOVE THIS CAR

Great little rocket hatchback thats fun

Seven months in...and very pleased.

Golf R - The Best All-Around Car I've Owned

Great car!

Poorly disguised as an econo-box.

Down sizing to a Golf R has been pain free 4/25/12

Hole in one

Lives up to its reviews ...

BEST BANG FOR THE BUCK!!

Incredibly fast and market-dominating hot hatch

26000 Miles and Going

Love this car

Golf R, Long Term Winner over almost bought FordRS

It's the greatest Car I owned

My 1st VW and my LAST

New leftover 2009 EOS

So Glad I went with it. 

Love the Goddess

Love my Eos

Still smiling......

Fun fun fun, buy it

Love it

Thumbs Up my Friends!

Wish I would have bought it sooner!

EOS-My Goddess of Wind

I never give 10's

Problem free for 72K miles!

Worst Car Ever 

this is the one!

Baby Boomer Bust!

Do not buy this car! 

This wagon is exactly what I was looking for.

Just what I wanted.

All that I wanted...

A poor effort

This is a good car

This car is awful!  Beware!

DEFECTIVE TRANSMISSION

FUN2BEHAD

Nice car with a few hiccups

Great Little car

A best hot hatch out !!!

First vw

Golf

Great little car

Transmission Kicks and other problems

Very satisfied!

Love the car, hate the MPG!

Great compact SUV, except for the transmission

Nice interior but engine performance is ok

Great car

One year and 20k mile Tiguan SE Review

Great performance with a few trade-offs...

Great fun to drive small SUV!

Completely satisfied 

Seemed great until...

Excellent Car & Salesman

after 18 years never stop

Surprising

I would buy again

Don't even think about it! 1992 model

Worth Every Penny

The Red-Headed Stepchild

Flint-Detroit 'beater'

Don't even consider it!!!!!

Love hate relationship

German made beauty!

Good car

i love it

Good deal...watch for expensive repairs.

Passat

Good Car

the love and hate I have for my Passat

Passat Wagon GLX

Absolute lemon

Good used car

Best "Bang for the buck"

Still going strong, it was well worth it

It's fixed

Trouble Maker

Fun Car

Passat 1993 vr6

Great

Its Nice

Just say "NO"

96 Passat GLS

Passat - another word for 

I like my Passat VW Wagen

My last VW

best engine and tranny combo

No more VWs

NEVER AGAIN!

LOVE IT!

VW PaCRAP

great car

Incredibly unreliable

sweet wagon

1996 VW Passat

Nice Enough Car

expensive repairs, but a fun car

Excellent car for cheap price

Fantastic VW

I have really LOVED this car

Unreliable

sooooo sad...

Amazed

Will Never Buy Another VW

Good Bye Passat

good cheap  replacement  car

Everything is good but the electronics

Zippie Car

excellent

fun 2 drive

Fun car to drive but too many issues

Very Good Buy

A FANTASTIC CAR !!!

Love VW....hate the dealers

Do not buy an Automatic

It's a keeper

runs forever

GLX Passat Wagon

680,000 and still running

I Like It!

Ripper in disguise!

91 PAssat breaks more than it works

A joy to drive

Stay Away!

Best Car I've owned

Watch out for this one

Can't beat it - better than Accord

1994 VR6 2.8 Passat

Rare Find Proves to be a Great Buy

great car

Best car I've owned

Great Car

expensive to repair

Road Trips Are Great

Running Great

Mad

VW Passat Wagon is So So

Worst car I have ever owned

Great Road Car

Don't Buy One

Never again

Cheap Beater

Unfit for the US

dissappointed

Upscale features for a compact SUV

First impressions

WV Tiguan great little SUV

Very Dissapointed

Nice SUV but mileage is really poor

Avoid 2015 models

List of problems with Tiguan

The Tiger Iguana is the Heat!

An Overlooked Gem

Quiet Comfort

Tiguan 2014-2015 Review

base model but still upscale

VW Tiguan is a great SUV

Didn't last long before trouble prevailed!

Great performing rough rider

Very nice but too small

Nice except for annoying engine vibration 

Irritating Vibration

Expensive but worth it

1st VW and very Pleased

Three items that are not state-of the art

New to VW - pleasantly surprised

Feels very premium and is fun to drive

Buyer beware

Sporty high-end feel

Happy New Owner

2013 VW Tiguan

Nice Car but Under Powered

Good every day driver

pricy/ fun/ some improvements

Tiguan is awesome

Pretty to Look at - Not fun to drive

We Named Her Tiguanda

Best Volkswagen Yet

Love The Tiguan

The perfect car for city drivers

Fun to drive and feels very posh

My GTI's Big Brother

There is a reason I named her Nyx...

Love this VW

Great car!

Unreliable at 100 miles

2012 Tiguan exceeds my expectations

Impressed With My First SUV

Great, except for the transmission

awesome 2012 tiguan

2012 Tiguan - Early Signs All Very Positive

2012 Tiguan Transmission Defect

Tiguan has Transmission Problems

Transmission problems fixed

Great Opportunity with 2012 VW Tiguan @ manual

I am sold on this Tiguan!!

Best Value for Base Model Out in the Market

Great value

Loving my VW Tiguan Sport!

Not so safe?

What's up with the front AC??

Great ar for a suddenly single guy

2016 Tiguan from Volkswagon of Clarksville

Great Ride - But Typical VW

Welcome to the family Tiggy

2016 S

Love my Tiguan, But...

BMW light

Not too big, not too small

GTI in SUV clothing!!!

Good pick for its class

Love and Hate.

Quality Over Quantity

New GTI Sport is perhaps the perfect GTI

The perfect balance.

The current Ultimate Driving Machine

Again, so much to like in one "sports" car!

2017 GTI Sport DSG

falling in love with my GTI

Nimble Rocket

Good car but not perfect

Great value for the money.

Golf GTI

Good Value

Like a GTI on stilts

2016 VW Tiguan is Teriffic!

Highly Recommended for travel in snow/icy roads!

More than the Reviews would tell you

1.8T]

Lovely, but troubled

Mechanical Money Pit

Great Car Maybe beacuase it's a GLX

I should have known.

great German car!

Crappy Passat

not too shabby

Amazin car i love it 

I hated this car!

Most Low-Maintenance Car I've Ever Owned

I ignored the reviews and bought one anyway, DONT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE!!

Great car!

DO NOT PURCHASE THIS CAR

Well, No More German Cars For Me

Stay away!

Great car

still runs, but i"m mechanical

German for "Piece of Junk"

German Engineering

Brakes Already!!

Another great VW

Good car, very bad reliability

Sell it before you hit 100K!

2009 Passat Wagon - Komfort

Great Car

Great thus far

For New Models

Passat Family

Fun

Ok car but expensive ongoing maintenance

seriously fun and reliable

2003 VW PASSAT  GLX SEDANS  KICK ASS AT 150mph too

2003 VW Passat GLS 1.8T

Don't buy it

German Engineering

I'll miss my VW

Happy Long Time Owner

VW Passat TDi

Love my Passat

reliability issues but great car besides that

100K Mile and still going strong

Great German Car

Extremely Unreliable

Eurostyle wagon experience

Save your money

Teutonic Solidity - Fun To Drive!

Many problems, too many to be satisfied.

V6 4MOTION

Maintenance! Total breakdown!

My first car

My favorite car

I Still LOVE This Car

Best car for your money!!

I will NEVER buy another VW!  

passat hater

Smooth and understated

Fun, but huge waste of money! Listed Repairs.

Upscale performace with horrible reliablity

Fooled Three Times

We're never ever ever getting back together

LOVE IT FOR THREE YEARS

Please do not make a mistake of buying a VW

42,000 Miles of Happiness

2004 Passat is indeed a fun to drive

Best european affordable car!

EXCELLENT CAR!

2008 Passat wagon 2.0T

Oil Burner

Less Quality

Check engine light

It's a Keeper!

so far so good - 32k miles - original owner

Best for me!

Burns Oil

Don't believe all the myths about these cars!!!

Great longevity

Trad d In the Car 2016- Emissions Tests  Problems

You need to know what you are getting into

Best vehicle I ever owned

Best Car I have ever owned

First VW ever

Worthy of JB Power awards

Full size car with small car fuel compuption

2013 Passat TDI SE with sunroof

Pass on the left, if you can!

So far  a good value for me

120K mile update

Das auto

Great Car....

First VW, first diesel = Don't know why I waited!

GREAT CAR WITH SUPER GAS MILEAGE

My first German engineered car - it's a little different

VW still has quality issues

Very balanced car

Seriously Consider this Gem of A Sedan

new to me cpo passat 2.5 s

German Engineering at the price of a KIA

Compares with cars that cost $10K more!

Excellent car

Very Satisfied!!!!!

Great car

Great Vehicle, would buy again!

Pure Driving Fun

Perfect Fit for Family of Four

Great Family Sedan

Best Value

Typical VW. No response to help or to reach out.

Car to catch

4 Time Passat Offender

Fun Drive

S to Wolfsburg Edition

Room to spare in a quality affordable Sedan.

Loving my passat

MY 2014 Passat TSI SE Experience

Great fun & economical car.

2014 Volkswagen Passat TDI SEL Premium, Automatic:  3 Months / 7K Miles

Pleasing Passat Performance...

Unmatched TDI mileage, huge and comfortable, early build quality worries

My Dad's Volkswagen

Bigger is Better...

Fahrvergnugen! Driving enjoyment!

Exceeds Expectaions

Best car for the Money

Achilles heel: Navigation System

A grown up car

Best Value out there

Passat Wolfsburg Edition

2015 Passat 1.8TSI 60k no problems!

First Volkswagen

2013 TDI First Drive

Extremely happy with my purchase

I booted my Audi A*L for this car!! I AM IN LOVE

Bought for MPG - Love for the Great Quality

Well Designed

A lot of car for the money

grey ghost

2015 Passat Limited Love it !

Amazing Safety

Interior- with color clothing- faded on the seats

Solid, Well-designed and great MPG

Passat - Lots of Room - nice accel. with good MPG

Overall Great

My first review for my first VW

Best Choice in Mid-Size Sedan Class

Thank you Bambi

A solid and reliable car that should endure

One month and one thousand miles and LOVE it!

It's a keeper.

Love this car!!

Amazing Vehicle

DSG Nightmare

Solid German Engineering & Build

Great Car

Amazing Car

First VW - Very Good but not Great

Car turns heads

2010 Passat

Poor Quality and Service

Awesome car for over 40's

Couldn't Pass Up this Passat SE TDI!

2012 TDI

My first VW

Power Style Pleasure to Drive

Far Exceeds My Expectations

Very nice

Transmission shot with only 65K and VW won't help

Quirky but I love it

2010 R36 Wagon Perfect  Family Wagon

10,000 Mile Review- 

Great Highway Sipper -  First VW & First TDI

Couldn't be happier!

Passat! Love it!

My First Volkswagen

Great car, lousy service

2012 Passat TDI (DSG)

unexpected pleasant surprise

2012 Passat SEL Premium

My third diesel, 2012 Passat TDI SEL Premium.

Best car we've ever owned

Better Than Expected

Worst car and customer service in the world

In for the long haul

Impressive car on multiple fronts

New TDI SE - MPG King!!!

Definitely Not a Camry!

Passatingly Addictive

TERRIBLE, HORRIBLE, WASTE OF METAL - NIGHTMARE EXPERIENCE

Don't buy this vehicle

BAD EMISSION SYSTEM

Great Car

Love my Passat!!!!!

VW Passat 4 Motion 

2008 Passat Lux Wagon 133,000 miles

Wish the execution was better.

Look at what's under the hood!

Good Car, But dont buy it

Solid and fun!

Very Disappointed

super car

Great car

Lemon Vehicle

Keep up with it!

Awesome car until your engine blows

Excellent Buy for the Money!

A stretch A4 Audi for less

Lots of "Wow"

Good when it works

NICE STYLE, POOR SUBSTANCE

144,000 miles and counting

Drives above 250,000 mils

What a lemon

Poor Engine - Terrible   warrantee 

Love it

Won't make this mistake again

The Audi A4 of VW's

Great car

Crappy car

Nice toy for people who have the time and money

Love Hate Relationship

Great car

looks can be deceiving...

Reliable

Leaving is a bitter sweet emotion

It's a shame

Passat 2.0T 
Audi in VW's clothing...

Sweeeeet!

Positive Surprise

Great So Far

2007 Passat Wagon

Great car with minor glitches

VW Passat is Awesome

Great highway car

Considering an SUV?  Get this Instead.

Love It!

Final review of my Wagon

Love my car but I hate the repair bills!

All great, except, reliability is terible

VW Passat Nothing but problems

Note on 2.0T Engine on 2006 till 2008.0 cars

Love This car

I have a smile on my face every time I drive this turbo beauty and the beast

First Time VW Owner

Great cars

Follow Up

Great Car, Great Value, More room than monster SUVs

Road warrior

new Passat

Dont buy this if its cold or snowy 

There is a reason for the short warranty

Passat GLS TDI

Great Car

TDI Wagon Still Strong

TDI Passat is fantastic

2005 TDI Owner

Money Pit

From Mercedes to VW

Get one if you still can!

2005 Volkswagen Passat GLS 1.8T 4Motion Wagon

Best VW yet

TDi 2005 Wagon

2005 Passat GLX Wagon Experience 

Fine, Fine Automobile.

Beware VW Fans!!!!

2005 Passat

Very Fine Automobile

Extensive Repairs All The Time.

Great Car But.....

2005 TDI Passat Wagon

2003 Volkswagen Passat

Looking for something reliable? AVOID AT ALL COST

The Lemonader

Lot of Miles

Avoid the turbo without a thorough inspection 

Best car I've ever owned

Wonderful solid agile

Good Solid Car

V6 4Motion great buy, but underpowered

One of my favorites

Classy Ride

Great Car Except... 2 Things Drive me Crazy

OIL SLUDGE AT 120K!  READ THE FORUMS

Love and Hate Relationship

Great car, expensive to own

Life Long Vdub owner

Very Frustrating

Fun Car to Drive and to Own

Great Car

A pleasure to drive

It's German

Same issues EVERYONE has...

Unreliable yet built like a tank

an absolutely solid car, without a new car replacement

190k and still hauling!

Surprisingly a good little car 

8 year review

Loved this car

The last passat review you need to read.

This is one classy automobile

Hope It Lasts Forever!

Update to Hope it lasts forever!

Anybody Want to Buy My Passat Wagon?

First car.

Drivetrain to die for!

my favorite car

Better Buy for Sedans

Never Again

Thinking of Buying a Passat, DON'T

luvin it!

Keep it simple

'99 Volkswagon Passat 

don't be a victim of the dealer

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

excellent

I got this back in high school...

Well... Just don't drive it into water

If you know how to work on car, this is for you

Update from 2010

Its like a beautiful woman :) HIGH MAINTENANCE

Never again!

The Passat Strikes Again

Poor Man's Audi

Big Loss

happy with decision to buy......

Never again

What a Great Car

Still in Love with '98 Passat 

Long-Time VW Owner Disgusted!

Love My Car!

This Passat treated me well

Never Buy This Car

Worst Vehicle Ever

Ambivalent

Bad car no bisquet

98 Passat --nice while it lasted

German Engineering = Crap!

Good If You Don't Keep It

After All, a Nice Car

still solid after all these years

Wow

Review

Nice Car, but Costly Repairs

Consumer Reports Top Pick?

Money Pit

EV - Passat Review

Don't Buy It!!! VWs Expensive To Fix!!!

My first - and last - VW!

2000 VW "THE PEOPLE'S CAR"

Solid Performer

VW Passat GLS V6 wagon (140K miles)

Great Car!

150,000+ miles and still going!

IT's a CRAP SHOOT

Great car  I would buy again

Glad I'm handy with a wrench

My wonderful Passat wagon!

213500 miles and still hauls A**

Good car, reliability not good

Worst Car Ever

One of the best cars out there for the money!

Excellent Choice!

Transmission is a disappointment

Sweet driving car

Don't Do It!!!!!!! Big Mistake!!!

An almost perfect car.

Beautiful Luxury without the Luxury Price

32K miles and 1.8T REAR MAIN SEAL BLOWS OUT!!!!

Great Car, Blows Away Everything Else in the Class

Never thought I'd own a Passat - but I love mine!

After the scam, a great car

VW Passat with Lifetime Warranty!!  Seriously

Best VW Yet!

Finally got a German engineered car

Seats are killing my back

love my passat and support vw!

Staying with VW

LOVE IT!!!

Amazed, 40 MPG

So far so good

Love our Touareg

Touring in the Touareg is Sensational

Best SUV - 2016 Touareg

Poor quality, defective electronics, bad dealers

Luxury and Power at an excellent price

Best Kept Secret in the SUV Universe -

Totally Touareg

'11 Touareg TDI hits almost all targets

New 2011 Touareg

Rare Find!!White w/Saddle Brown VR LUX

Great car. Technology features not tested for U.S.

treg - 2 months review

Classy Looking Touareg

Give Me Diesel Stuttgart

Unapologelic Owner

Very comfortable touring car.

Great Car

Steering wheel shake

My best friend on the road..

2013 Touareg TDI 500 miles!

2014 Touareg TDI Exec.

NICE CAR, BUT GET A RAIN COAT

Too Many Problems

Awesome

love it

Worst SUV ever

Repairs - Often and Expensive

I'm impressed!!!!

Touareg best I have owned

New Owner

On-Road Only

Best Car Ever

VW

Poor Quality Poor VW Customer Service

Happy

Pretty good little car

Cool Little Car

Sub-Par

great car with typical VW issues

VW

91 - Bad year for the Jetta

300,000km still strong

Nothing but fun

Take a Walk on the Mild Side

jetta GLI 16V

German-made Jetta

great diesel

Great car for the budding mechanic

Jetta's rule!

1991 1.6TD Jetta Great for Work

Always got 'er done

the diesel is a winner

I love My yellow 16v

Never buy from an Auction

Jetta Fan

VW Jeta Diesel in Minnesota - First Year

my first and only

Consumer Rating

It's an OK Car

fairly good car for its age

No Worries '92 Jetta GL 5spd

Love the 87 VW Wolvesburg Edition

A "REAL" VW feel & drive experience

made me a vw lover

Eco diesel ROCKS!

Relaxing Drive

Vee-Dub

Best Car I Could Buy

Everything but Electric

92 Jetta/NO Regrets

good car

what happened did german engineering???

Very Good Car, Will Only Buy VW's

This car is Insane

Still a great SUV choice for those who tow.

Flawed Beauty

I Do Have A Gripe!

German Tank

A Very Capable & Comfortable SUV

If God designed a vehicle this would be it

Very impressive package

Best vehicle I have owned

Like our new ( to us) diesel Touareg

Love my Tourareg Executive!

VW should be selling more of these ...

Mixed Bag (II)

Love the handling of this SUV - fun to drive

The Curious Case Of Diminishing Milage

2013 Touareg TDI

I like it better than my ML350 and Q5

Steering Wheel Shake

Best SUV Diesel in North America that provides excellent gas mileage. 

Lots of Car for the Money

Vroom Vroom

Extremely disappointed - not recommended 

Disappointing From The Start

My First Toureg TDI w/lux package

Do NOT buy this SUV if you live where the wind blows!

My first and last VW

Beautiful

Great Vehicle

Stay far far away

One of the best vehicles I have ever owned

Love the quality

Incredible value!

2012 Touareg TDI Exec

Disaster...love the car, but 10 service calls??

2 years and 30,000 miles

2012 VW Touareg Sport w/ Navigation

Great vehicle, But

Very satisfied

I like mine!

Six Weeks with Hilda -Touareg TDI

Lovely to drive, Costly to repair

Pretty with Flaws

Touaregs are tops

Beats the X5 and ML

Buy Something Else

2005 Touareg V8 Review

2005

An SUV That Can Take You Anywhere

Piece of CRAP car

It's a Keeper

2500 mile review but great so far!

Great Diesel

Great Buy

German tank safety with GTI performance

Love It!

Super SUV

Excellent SUV

And they make the gas version because...

Toureg Tough on Kids

Amazing SUV

What a great ride!

You have one? I'll buy it.

Not great but ok.

Great Vehichle

Good Value

Pleased so far, but remains to be seen...

DO consider the TDI Touareg!

Very Poor GPS System

Best vehicle we've ever owned, way better then the new model PERIOD! if you want a real truck and not a car.

Not Perfect but so good I don't care

Outstanding

Has It Changed for the Better

This is an Awesome SUV!

Nice Truck

This is Awesome!

"Farfegnugen" 

My Engine Just Blew

Great Ride

DO NOT BUY!

DO NOT BUY THIS CAR

My working beast

Certified T-Reg

30+ MPG at 70 MPH

Touareg Nightmare

Road Trip From California to Montana

I just lost $8000......

Wouldn't buy it

Great German SUV - Go Drive

Best Ever

Near Perfection

The Best SUV for your $$$

Drove all Lux Trucks

6 months in, very happy with purchase

Awesome!!

No longer poor mans Audi

Love this vehicle!!

2007 Touareg

Positive Experience

A Huge Money Sink

Love the Touareg

been 'lookin for a year

Value with Style

A Best Kept Secret

Our first VeeDub

WOW!!!

Tons of fun

Maintenance is the key....

Great Vehicle

For your consideration

'06 Touareg

Touareg V8

TDI...Great Towing, Comfort & Power!

Beware of Problems 

Love my Touareg

The Amazing V10 Diesel

The Perfect SUV

Bad Electronics

First Year for Touareg

Love it ,But

Touareg rules

VW - No Longer the People's Car

Avoid Touareg

Replaced Cayenne S with V10 TDI

Dishonest maker

First time VW owner

My 3rd Touareg!

Perfect Car with Two Small Exceptions

better buys

So much right in one car.

The most practical mid-size sedan you can buy

Well built Sedan- Peppy engine &great fuel economy

Unbelievable Value

For what it is, the Passat excels

my affordable audi

My best purchase

Excellent value

Third Passat and this is the best one yet!

passat

Surprisingly Good

Best in Class

The R-line's sleek design and handling are A+

AMAZING CAR!!!

American made with German design

A different experience

Great Car for the Money

Simple, Elegance and Comfort

Absolutly Great Car

Pretty Awesome for low 20k price tag

better than my two Corollas

What a car!

Fun Car

YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT A DAY MAY BRING!

Love hate relationship with Red Jetta

Buyer Beware....

Good Car

damn good car

It was NightMare.!!

Super Happy

1997 VW Jetta GL

Fun

Good car, but it will cost you in the long run...

VW fan, NOT Jetta fan

Never again

VW Farfrumworking

I love my car....but

Save yourself!

This is a crappy car!

VW FROM MEXICO JUST NOT CUTTING IT

Best Beater

never buying a VW again

VW Jetta GLS is an awesome car.

Do you really want one?

the worst car I have ever had

Long Term Happiness

jetta could be betta

Jetta.. Worse car I have ever owned!!!

Fun, Thrifty, Reliable

Lemon lemon lemon

2004 Jetta GLI

I LOVE MY JETTA!!

Great little car, just don't do what I did.....

wagon werks

Love the Car but Not perfect

Best car ever oh my god!

Jetta TDI 

What a POS

I'd still be driving it but...

Cant go wrong with vr6

I know you might love it, but please DON'T buy it!!!

Fun at the start but not when needed!

i love my wolfsburg 1.8t jetta

2001 Jetta GLX VR6

Don't Buy a VW, Too Many Problems

Most Reliable I ever owned

Still like to drive it after 11 years

A Nice Ride

awesome car

Satisfied and Secure Jetta Owner

Hate it!

165,000 miles strong

Worst Car Ever Owned

Please stay away, please, you won't even able to sell it

My experience

excellent

Love Hate Relationship

7 years and counting

Fun, but Unreliable

Never Again

I was BAMBOOZLED!

Nice car, great value retention

A Blast to Drive!

Jetta Rock(et)

Needs Prius Style MPG guage

Great Little Car

Love My Jetta

A pretty good car so far..

Better than expected

Love It!

2008 for the commuter

Many problems too fast

Dissapointed

What a Hunk of Junk

Dud Airbags

So glad I waited to get the 2008!

First VW

Ok, but watch for back brakes

Impressed

I am wow'd

A step-up from my American cars

Used 2008 Jetta, fell in love on a Sunday!

love the VW

Awesome "upgrade" car!

Thanks God i am leasing it

Great car!

VW Wolfsburg

As Expected

2007 Jetta Wolfsburg 5-speed

2007 GLI

Wolfsburg Edition - Best Value

Fell in Love after the first ride

Fun and Solid

Jetta Review

Great Ride

Nice Solid Compact Car

I Love this Car!

2007 Jetta Wolfsburg edition 5Cyl Auto

Would be better in Germany

My First Jetta or VW for that Matter

Typical German Engineering- Good and Bad

Great Car

Great Commuter Vehicle

2006 Volkswagen Jetta Value Edition 

Very disappointed, last VW ever for this guy.

Best car that I have ever own

great vehicle until 80,000 miles

So far so good... 

Reliability Diaster

VW Jetta Wolfsberg 

2008 VW Jetta SE Auto

3 year lease end love it/hate it still pt. 1

2008 Jetta Wolfsberg Edition

First and last VW for me! 

third times a charm??

200,000 with my '06 Jetta 2.5 manual!

Still Enjoy BUT

A Coffin on Wheels

Isn't necessarily aging gracefully....

DIESEL

fuel pump failure

2009 Wolfsburg 2.0T 6sp Auto

Maintenance repair shop queen

VW should give cars away for free and charge for repair. 

Never again will I buy a VW

money pit

Where do i start?

Worst experience ever

Disappointing After Warranty

Clutch failed at 20k miles

2009 Jetta Wolfsburg

If you want economy, you must pay for it!

Love hate relationship

BW loves his VW

Still Smooth Sailing After 5+ Years

I love my Jetta, mostly...

Good car, but bad reliability, warranty

2009 VW TDI DSG Tranny Update

2009 Jetta problem vehicle

SEL is Sports Car with Wagon Utility

Worst Car I have ever owned

Mixed Bag

Love my 2010 Jetta TDI premium,220hp with 290torqe

If only it were reliable

Noisy Engine - Test Drive Carefully!

Poor quality and poor Service

ALWAYS TROUBLE BYPASS THIS CAR!

2010 VW Jetta Wolfsburg Manual

Never Again

80k

Thinking of buying a VW?

2010 VW Jetta 2.5L SE

AC garbage

Great value and fun to drive too!

More than the engine

Do not buy 2005/6 TDI unless cam has been replaced

Jetta Review

Major TDI Engine Repairs...Cam failures

Pros have outweighed the cons

Preventative maintnance from dealership does NOT prevent big problems

Best Car Ever

Decent investment

Unable to resolve problems

Jetta problems

Commendable Vehicle

Transmission problems

WOULD NOT WISH THIS CAR ON MY WORST ENEMY!

Mr. Reliable

Never Buy a VW again

Best car ever

Jetta GLI

Very disappointed

Never again!!!

Good daily commuter car.  Not fun.

Great car, but high maintenance

2002 Jetta TDI

It's all good

Best Car Ever

German Engineering My Butt

Are you Kidding

43 MPG!

under rated TDI

Don't Listen to the NaySayers

2002 VW Jetta GLX VR6

Good and Bad

Dont Do It!

Solid sedan

Up's and DOWNS!! :(

It's been alright

If you're reading this I already feel sorry for you.

The yellow is starting to show

Constant expensive repairs

FAVORITE CAR

Highly Recomended

Terrible. You'd be better off riding a bike!

High Miles

It has its quirks, but I love it!

jetta tdi

Outstanding Car

Can't Wait to Get Rid of My Jetta

So far so good

My 1st Lemon

OVERATED!

4x2 Double Cab PreRunner V6 (5 Speed Automatic)

Retired Tacoma Owner

Good Truck

Solid medium size truck

Best truck made for an outdoor a couple 

love this truck

Just OK

Underpowered but great truck

Should Be Better

Terrific Tacoma

Awesome Truck

4 cylinder, 4x4 Tacoma with 4 speed automatic

Does The Job

Best truck ever!

right for me

exceeded expectations

Buy It Now

High Utility in Smaller Package

Surprised by quality issues

2012 Tacoma

5 speed snow eater

Top of the line it's not

The Best Vehicle on the Road... today

Rookie Truck Owner

Base 4x4 is great

Longtime Ford driver now in a Tacoma 4x4

Exactly what I needed.

Love it!

Perfect Midsized Pickup

General problems

09 tacoma

Toyota Quality Declines As They Refuse To Accnowle

Barely a truck

Not very happy with my 3rd new 4WD Taco 

Thank god for toyota

First  time Toyota owner

Great Truck

Love my Tacoma...BUT...

meets needs

Great overall midsize

Uncomfortable seats for a small person

Nice Truck - Xmission could be better

Nice truck but not a keeper.

Acceleration

2009 Tacoma Prerunner 4cyl, Manual 5spd

Frame rust

Less than expected

Transmission Trouble

Good engine, horrible transmission

Is there a better truck in this class?

Best kept secret

2006 Toyota Tacoma SR5 4x4 2.7L

Overpriced Junk

Severely dissappointed

An incredible truck

Great Truck For The Money

Excellent truck, on and off road

The best I have found

Great Value

I cant see myself not Owning one from now on 

The Best little truck I ever own (so Far)

GOOD TRUCK

Where do you put your legs?

Great Truck just getting broken in

Toyota trucks can't be beat

Great all around truck

I can't believe how bad the gas mileage is on this truck.

10 year review

An excellent vehicle!

TACOMA 4WD 2.7L 5 SPEED

Bring the 2.4 ltr Hilux to the USA

Good combination of features

Great Truck, 10 years till my next one!

What do I fix

Tremendous Vehicle

Everything I needed...

The Truck I've Alway's Wanted!!!!!

Tacoma Crew

My Used '04 Taco D-Cab

Me and my Taco

05 Taco DC-LB 4x4

My '05 PreRunner 10 Years Later

lier lier toyota shame on you..

" Yoda " Toyota Tacoma 2005 2.7L L4 FI DOHC 16V

Great motor and reliable but Toyota quality poor.

Great Truck

Fine vehicle

TO GET IT PERFECT

Satisfied

BUY A TOYOTA WITHOUT A 8 SPEED AUTO WHILE YOU CAN

"A Golf Car Dressed As A Minivan"

2017 Toyota Sienna is piece of Junk

Great Product

Best car ever

2017 Sienna

Love AWD but make car slower

Sienna - Tried, True and Improved

Disappointing compared to our 2008

2017 Sierra

Passes every test

Sequoia success

Best SUV for the Money

90's Basic for Luxury price

Great Overall Hauler

Wife's Volvo

Safety above Speed Reasonable MPG

Almost Perfect

S80

2010 T6 is a real sleeper - drive one!

2010 S80, trying another Volvo

Best of the three!

My favorite car

Never more comfortable

Love the new s-80

Nice toy!

Great safety, liability and insurance protection, But....

S80 2012

S80 Volvo with brawn, but less brain.

Newer Is Not Better.

Vibration Nation

Tacoma Blues

Safety Hazard

2nd Tacoma

Hate the Auto Transmission

The most perfect vehicle you will ever have

Wife had to have this DUNE

2016 VW Dune Review

Puts a smile on my face!

Reminds me of our 1959 Kaefer

Fun, Solid Vehicle On-road and Off

2016 Tacoma - poor quality

TRD Sport Crew Cab 4x4 5.0" bed

Transmission problem with only 5000 miles

All New Tacoma?

Heading Back to the Dealer After First Fue Fill Up

First Taco!

Underpowered motor, terrible transmission, issues

Excellent truck with a few fatal flaws

Vibrations, Howls, Squeaks, Failed Rear Diff

best truck ive driven

sweet little truck

Interior Comfort and Design -- So Disappointed

Perfect Truck For Me

Great Truck

shudder @ 40mph.....poor engineering

Foglight issue.

Great first truck

black beauty

You won't find a better mid-sized truck

Could do better...

Don't drive in water

Issues out of the gate.

Disappointed

Very poor acceleration and shifting

BEST TRUCK FOR THE MONEY

What a truck

nickel and dime

A 16 Month Nightmare

Understand what you are buying

Sound System

great little truck

2015 Tacoma Double Cab 4x4 Off Road

Awesome truck!

I4 Tacoma2015 4by4

Best Toyota I've owned

1st VW - 1st diesel

A Very Satisfied Husband and Wife

Retro design with minor flaws

Best Beetle ever made...Got me back into VW!

Luv my punch buggy!

A great sport coupe for not a lot money

Amazing performance, and little gas consumption!

NEW BEETLE TDI IS A GREAT VW!

Fender Beetle Lover

Gr8 vehicle for the price!

Love everything except the ability to play my IPOD

4th one is a charm

You won't like the lugging

Well designed and built, but underpowered

Windshield Issues

An Honest Review From A New Tacoma Owner

The Classic is a Perfect Fit

I really enjoy the decision i made

Fun bug!

Don't miss out!

Comfortable, Safe Cruiser

Best Bang For The Buck

worked it out

Wasn't sure about this car at first...

Awesome car - Technology needs improvement

Great value

Fun, 4 cylinder economy that hauls

Immediately Knew It Was My Car

My dream car since I was 16

Great value at great price

Europe WOW!

New tires at 20,000 miles??

Just What I Wanted!

Great car...Would not hesitate buying another one!

Great Highway Cruiser

great car

Miss my Subaru

cars oner

Love at first drive hoping for LTR

Nice Cruiser

Surprisingly good value

Good commuting car

Surprise!!!

Sporty looking car

20177 Toyota Corolla IM

IM actually thoroughly impressed!

Getting in and out

I didn't buy

Over paid for hybrid

100% satisfied!

Great choice for me

A Step In The Right Direction

Poor Mileage

Boring reliable economic transportation and little else

Happy we purchased the PriusV

when in doubt, buy a toyota

prius V level five

Prius V lives up to expectations

Hybrid Battery Heck

Meets all our expectations

Good, Some Improvements Required

Mileage Meter Calibration?

Disappointed

A super vehicle

First Hybrid -- not the last

2007 HiHy base model

Surprised by the quality

Great Mileage SUV/CUV is gone 01/2017

Great ride

Defective Battery and Charging System

Incredible reliability, perfect size

2007 Highlander Hybrid First 500 Miles

Following first long trip

Great Running

Miles per gallon

Bad fuel economy

Love it

Almost got killed in my hybrid

Good Result

Excellent car except for start battery

Women should be aware of reliability

2007 Toyota HH

Solid SUV

it's maybe Average

2001 Highlander LTD

Wrong Vehicle

MY CAR

2001 Highlander Excellent Value

I could ask for a whole lot more! 

Love the Car, not the mpg

Can't believe the costs of parts!

Disappointed 

Three months into a Highlander Hybrid

My Camry Hybrid

Great car

You got to get one of these!

All I Asked For

A mpg giant

Toyota Avalon Unlimited 2013 Hybrid

It has everything!

Fantastic car - one year update

Best value for the money

This is not your grandpa's Avalon

Welcome to the 21st Century!

first luxurious car that does not break the bank account

Now this is an Avalon

Best I have ever owned

Wow what a decision

Best Toyota I've Owned

Almost Perfect Sedan: Long Range Machine!

OWNING AN AVALON HYBRID IS GREAT!!!

Great car and value

They took all the good Avalon out

Limited Avalon Hybrid review (Lexus es300h compared)

A Lexus in Toyota Clothing?

Wow, prepare to be impressed

Wow, nice job, Toyota

Love my Car

Love It Soooooo MUCH !!

50th Anniversary Edition Camry Hybrid

Best Full Size Hybrid Available

I'm sold (3 times)!

Economical, comfortable and steady wins the race

Why Toyota

Excellent Used SUV

4Runners Rule!

One Great Truck!

Spiffy

Toyota forever!

Solid and Tough

some good some bad...

My 4Runner

Great, slow, dependable

My Best Vehicle!

Avoid at all cost!

A real trooper

1990 4Runner-the best

yota tough, 1990 4-runner sr-5, 5speed.

Good Second Vehicle

Excellent 4runner

Indestructable

Best Ever Owned

Yotas rule!

Innovative 2007 Camry-Hybrid

A keeper

Exceptional quality for the price

Camry Hybrid

2007 Camry Hybrid update

Keeps on Going, No troubles

Highlander is a very good SUV

2001 Highlander

Lemon or Bad Luck???

120K and going strong

Love the Car, but prepare for Repairs

ELITEST

Toyota run around

Reliable Maintenance Free

fantastic

Speechless

2001 Highlander Limited

I love it!

Best car I have ever owned

Best vehicle I've ever owned

wish I was impressed

Highlander 4 Matrix

Love My Toyota

Ride on the Edge of America

Roomy, reliable, ponderous gas-hog

Love my Highlander!

One of the best cars I've ever owned

It finally died at 230K miles

Keeps going

New to toyota

Simply Irresistable!

Great car! Original owner

Great SUV

stupendous

I thought Toyotas were some of the best 

Best car ever

$4000 batteries at 112,000

Over 150,000 trouble free miles

2007 Camry Hybrid

I recommend it

Landbruzer

Inverter Problems

Hybrid system breakdown!

Heck of a First Car -- Will Post 1yr Review as Well

2006 with 92000 miles

Love it

Bad Engine!

Best Vehicle I've Ever Owned

4-cylinder Review

200k Miles on Mine!

Solid vehicle

The most versatile high MPG hybrid

The perfect car for high gas prices

Highly recommend to city dwellers

A Few Suggestions

Good overall value - and mileage

Good Value and Reliability

A Great Hybrid Wagon

Good, not great; I can live with it for next 5 years

Very satisfied

Right time, Right car

EXCELLENT Fuel Mileage

A great alternative to compact SUV

Fun ride

Best Car I've Owned

MPG much better than ratings

A review from Quebec...

Extremely Happy 

New v Wagon Owner

Thrilled!

Exceeded Expectations

After almost 4 years, still a great car

weak in the hills

A great buy

Bought to drive to Alaska

Prius Vs need MODDING!

Great car for our family

Prius V three - 2013

Best Vehicle I Have Ever Owned

Practical Prius V

first hybrid

Our Third One

Awesome economical utility wagon

Safety

Don't Pity Me

It's a Prius, It's What You Expect

I am  impressed

Dangerous safety features

my new matrix for senior citizen!

Awesome daily driver car!

great car if not for the glitches

Solid Value

Best Damn Car I've ever owned

TOYOTA >>>A feeling of security

285000K and counting...

Nice Vehicle

I can ALWAYS depend on getting there....

I love my 4-runner

Keepin on...

Great Truck

Built-in Quality

Best Vehicle Ever Owned

Well-Built

Great Car

The most reliable SUV

Great Vehicle!

Awesome vehicle!!

Simply the Best

1997 4RUNNER LIMITED 4WD

Wouldn't Recommend

Best Japanese SUV

Love it!

Great car.

Immortal

135,000 miles and still going strong!

4Runner owners beware of Transmission

1997 4Runner

Good Bye to a Great Old Car

Get excited everytime I drive it!!

Best SUV ever!

4Runners Forever

My Reliable Rig

Bullit proof  SR 5

Awesome SUV

Another dependable Toyota

Best SUV 

Going strong 

"I should be in a toyota commercial"

Keeps going and going and going

Passing on tradition

great truck

Be sure before you buy

My Baby

4 Runner Transmission Problems

So VERY SAD

Gen 3 Toyota 4Runner -still a hot buy

toy4runnin

2000 4 runner sr5 2wd

Best buy ever!

Back to a Toyota

Best Car

Great

2000 4Runner SR5

Best vehicle ever

Love/Hate my 4Runner

2000 SR5...11 years running

Reliable Suv

LEMON

Impressed with quality and amenities

Best vehicle I've ever owned

Best SUV available

Best vehicle I've ever owned

2003 4Runner after 6 years of ownership

4mazing

Fun comfort

Proud and Happy owner!!!

Great Vehicle

Get A Ford!

This has all the marbles

What a great vehicle!

My 03 4runner

Solid

230 thousand strong

By far, this is the best SUV ever built.

Great Quality Mid-size Truck

TestOfTheNew4Runner-IMPRESSED!

BEST OF THE BEST

Best Car I've Ever Owned

The Best SUV for the Money

Blown away by a used car

2003 SR5 4WD V6

What a feeling - great SUV !!

Great Ski and Tow Vehicle

Great will keep it 4 ever

01 4runner

Can't beat it!

Best vehicle I have ever owned

224k (12-2-2011) on Clock and the engine still running like new. 

I give this 10 stars on a 5-star scale

True to its reputation!

Ltd. V8 4Runner

Smart vehicle purchase

Good All Around Vehicle 

275,000 and counting

4RUNNER DEPENDABILITY

Best Car I've Ever Owned

Best SUV you can buy.

Proven, Capable, SUV

Best vehicle I have ever owned

Great purchase

Excellent SUV

Best Car On The Road

Just bought one

A year driving it!!

Not living up to the Toyota legend

58,000 Miles Since I Bought New

User Unfriendly

Satisfied

Great SUV

Not happy with my 4 runner.

Car has had many repairs less than 5k mi

Bought it with 180k miles, and it rides like new!

2008 Urban Runner Sport

It Grew On Me

Major Exhuast & Emission Problem

TBA

4Runner

My 3rd 4Runner - Bullet Proof as Usual

Great SUV for Off Road and On

The BEST- better than Mercedes SUV

2007 Toyota 4Runner SR5

Great Vehicle

I like it

4Runner's for life!

toyota 4runner for ever.

I am pleased

Safe and most reliable

It gives me no good reason to sell it.

Best vehicle I have ever owned or driven

60k Report

Perfect Mid-size SUV

Great Car

Can't Get Any Better! 

I love it!

The best I've owned

Good car

I had a 87 bmw but I love this SUV

Great truck

Mom's toy

Jumping for Toyota

Best SUV ever owned...

just get it!

Loved...Loved...Loved my 2008 4Runner!

Maybe saved my life

Fan For Life

Best SUV period

It's is the Best on the Road!  Bar None!

Yea, I loved my 2008 Urban Runner

Best Vehicle ever!

Love it!

Love that 4runner

A Great Choice!!

4Runner - The Legacy Continues...

Logical choice

2006 Toyota Limited V8 Black

My nautical blue T4R

BLACK 4RUNNER LTD

2006 4 Runner SR5 4X V6

bigger and better

Great truck, must maintain w/Toyota

Best car I ever owned!

Warning bad exhaust manifolds

New Impression for an Old Friend

Happy

V-8 smooth

Best SUV By Far!

Limited 99

Time to Redesign

Good Vehicle

THE BEST!

A solid SUV

4Runner 4Ever...this vehicle is bullet proof

Great Car

Love my 4Runner!

Fun to drive

174,000 miles and running strong

Why did I buy a 4Runner?

Noisy Relays/ABS Actuator Pump

New in '99, Bought again in '02

Great Design and Reliable

The Best

Wanted one for years

Love my 4runner

Just Browsing

Saved My Life

Great Value

Amazing!

Enjoyed my used for 2 years, would not buy another

2002 Toyota 4Runner-always the class of the field

Supercharged this thing rocks!

2002 Toyota 4Runner Sport Edition

Awesome 4runner!

Not the perfect SUV

Absolutely a great SUV for the money

Best SUV Made!

200k and more

I LOVE THIS CAR!

Solid as a rock after 60k miles

2001 4RUNNER FRAME CORROSION

Transmission Problems

Trusty old friend

Great SUV

Would by another one in a heartbeat

Love this truck!!!

Great Truck

Mechanically excellent "but"

Fun ride

Unstoppable 4Runner Sport 

7 1/2 times around the planet so far

4Runner rules!

OIL SLUDGE COVER UP

My 4 Runner rules

Best I've ever owned

Best SUV ever

Best vehicle I have ever owned!

v6 sr5 4x4

superior Car

A Guzzler but SUCH A TRUCK!

3 blown engines later and no power to boot...

Love this SUV!!

244,000 and still going strong

Best Car I've Ever Had

Excellent SUV

Solid Pick

The best car you will ever have the pleasure of owning

Great truck!

the best

One Tough Truck

Still Running

It's a Toyota - What do you expect...

The Runner

my 4runner

very comfortable, so-so mileage

TAKEN FOR GRANTED

1991 Toyota 4Runner

1991 Toyota 4Runner 22re 4X4

Very reliable

Average experience

Ohh Yeah

My 4x4 SR5 4Runner is great!

Great vehicle, but ours not as reliable as some

I love our 4 Runner

Great off-road vehicle

I love my 4Runner

This is my baby

Sleeper

I Love This Car!

Best all around

Built To Last

1999 4Runner Limited 4WD

Venerable 4runner!

191,000 miles and still drive it daily

260,000 miles. Amazed it is so strong.

Auto Hall of Fame!

91 fourrunner

The truck that never could get stuck

These engines tend to blow.

Best wagon for the money

best truck around

Best Vehicle I've Ever Owned

Doesn't get any better

98 4 Runner Review

THE BEST

I named her Baby

231K miles and counting

Twelve Years Out

Very Nice SUV

Solid Vehicle

loved it now time to trade

Best Used SUV Ever

Just Keeps on Runnin'

Just bought it and love it already!

No vehicle has come close

Just can't get rid of it

I Love My 4Runner!!!

Saved My Life

Classy, Tough, Reliable

Groovy Ride!

As good as expected

I miss it

Most favorite vehicle I have had-14 years and counting.

1998 4runner has rusty frame

Good, Dependable SUV

Over 400,000

A MUST HAVE!!!!!

Most Reliable Vehicle Ever

4Runner best car ever

Bullet Proof!

Excellent as expected

Excellent, Solid, Reliable 4Runner

Solid & reliable

Great SUV

Wonderful SUV

1996 SR5 4Runner long term

Good for this type of SUV

200,000 and Counting

This is a tank

Never Again

Gutless-guzzler

Gasket Problem...

1995 SR5 V6 2WD

My trusty 4Runner

The most reliable 

4Runner & Tacoma are amazing!

Not for speed demons.

slow!

TRunner at YotaTech.com

Everything Works!!

1995 Toyota 4Runner

Love the 'Runner

Blown Head Gasket! Not a happy camper!

Love it!

Head gasket problems

Gas hog, slow, but it works

247k miles and still kicking!

Reliable suv

158,000 mile 4 runner

Great SUV

4x4

Problems with 4 Runners/Toyotas

Best Truck Ever

1994 4runner

My First Toyota, Good Truck!!

Reliable

4Runner review

Reliable and Rugged 4WD

Will hate to see him go

What a Truck

Better than my Previous Vehicle

I liked it so much I bought another one

No Problem

4Runner

Never Again

Awesome

A great truck

I love my truck

Built to Last and Last-----

great vehicle

Got a Gem

Love it 

Nothing but problems

First and Last SUV

10 Years in the Desert

Great SUV

grrrreat

4-runner 

.

nice, but slow

1992 4runner v6 4x4

Takes a lickin'.....

Look out  for head gasket (blew 2x)

a life saver! (literally!)

Great SUV

What do you consider "high mileage"

Getting old, but still runs like a top

Made it to 300,000 miles!

The Class of the Class

Southern CA/big thumbs up

Great Car and Fun to Drive

Mirai, what a surprise

Excellent Car - Poor man's Tesla

So far, so great!

Great plugin hybrid

Love it

It's a very good vehicle

SO FAST!!!!!!!!!!!!!

The ultimate hybrid??

My new 4Runner

Best model available in 45 years of driving SUV's

Love the truck not the sound

Function Over Form, but damn sexy!

A True SUV

Prius prime advanced far better than the last

The Prius We Always Wanted

Gas Miser!

Perfect blend of future and conservatism

Prius Prime Premium is Perfect

Happy Driver

Don't judge a book by it's cover

For the right type of buyer, a great car

Reliable and comfortable

Great New Truck

4Runner Trail is a Good Compromise

I love it

4 Runners are forever

Owners' Reviews Speak for Themselves

I love my truck!

Awesome

Good driving

Child of '83 Landcruiser and '05 ScionTC

Love it!

Better Than Reported

Some things that helped

Pared Down!

Great SUV

The Best of All my Auto's

a turtle with an ipod

This isn't a lexus RX

So Glad to be back in a 4runner!

After 25000 miles in 14 months

watch for recall on 2011 shocks

Please take sufficiently long test drive

Go anywhere, Do anything

Toyota Rocks !!

4 Runner disappointment

No idea how this ride gets poor reviews

Useless GPS System

Hint: WILL NEVER BUY ANOTHER TOYOTA

2nd 4Runner: excellent vehicle

Rugged, No... Quality, No... Technology, Horrible!

Love my 2015 4 runner

Ouray colorado

4runners are not what they used to be

Transmission Shudder from 1st to 2nd upshift

Very pleased so far

1200 miles, and very happy.

Excellent Quality

Another Toyota disappointment 

Are we driving same vehicle

Great off the road

Not as good as past models.

2nd 4-runner in three years

Top Quality do everything SUV

Does not Match up to 2005 4Runner Sport

2014 4R 4x4 Ltd

Best REAL SUV out there

So far, so good

4RUNNER 4ever

Back in a 4runner

Highly overrated

I do not like this vehicle

My 4-runner

Awesome vehicle

Great car

You have to love a 4Runner for the right reasons.

great for our off road trips

After one year, love it as much as the day I bought it.

The first 1320 (miles not feet)

One Awsome 4Runner

Happy purhase!

It's a beauty!

Limited 4 runner

I love this vehicle, except...

2014  4Runner Premium

2014 4 Runner

The last of a dying breed

Fail from Toyota

Good ride quality for truck based SUV.

Great 4Runner

Know What You Are Buying.

Tough Decision - So Glad I Bought It!

What a great SUV

Great Vehicle !!!!!

Best mid size suv I have owned for the rught price

Sometimes you get what you need.

Toyota Quality - Not Just A Catchphrase

Love my 4Runner

The 2015 Toyota 4Runner TRD Pro is the best 4x4 of the year

Very impressive vehicle!

A Mini Land Cruiser

So Far Its Great!

Not as good-fun as my 2008 4Runner

Wasn't expecting this...

Poor Over Road Ride

Don't be fooled by the great reviews! I think people don't know any better! 

one of the last old school suvs

Poor Rear Bumper Design - needs a recall

Love my runner

Classic and dependable

Classy, Comfy, & Sophisticated

Great value for pre-owned car.

4Runner Limited

Solid reliable choice

Not for everyone, but for the few

Nice

Love this 4runner; loved last 4runner

Makes Me Laugh!!

It is what it isn't

Got What I Expected...

Fun and Awesome!!

It's a Truck!

Love it!

Just got 2011

First 4Runner

Excellent Job Toyota!

Wish I Had My Old 4runner Back

'95 Avalon in Review

Got to Love it.

Solid Car 

Best Car Ever

Love my Avalon

my best friend

High miles, salvaged, and a great car

Love the Avalon

Just keeps going and going, in style

A good faithful car

216,963 and still running!

Lexus Quality for Fewer Dollars

Very reliable at 178,000 miles

Amazing car

Still happy after 10.5 years!

410K and still running

280000 and still going

558,000 miles

Can't Kill It!

206,000 mile Bang for the Buck!

4Runner Happiness

Reliablility... little else

New 4runners, NOT as good as the last, v6 weak..

I HATE MY 2010 TOYOTA 4RUNNER 

2010 4runner Excellence

Entune NOT fully compatible w/Iphones

Buy the KDSS

Awesome vehicle

Toyota 4 Runner The drive that make you want to ke

Good bye jeep!

Entune NOT fully compatible w/Iphones

So Far, So Good!

Disappointed

2009 SR5 4Runner .. One word , AWESOME !!

Needs new transmission

Poor Navigation System

annoying transmission bump

Honeymoon is over - and I still LOVE THIS 4RUNNER!

Love my new Trail Premium

SR5 Premium a Great Value

4 Runner Won Me Over

Watch out for leather interior

Recall for sludge

Smokin' engine... literally

Great car, Great price.

She is 11 years old 

Holy crap, this car is too damn reliable

Avalon built in USA - No good

Second Toyota/More to Come

Auto Climate Control - Beware!!!!

spacious ride

Im Impressed

My Avalon

Wind Humming

Love It!

Avalon

the best i ever had

99 Avalon Review

Couldn't be more happy

A wonderful car to drive each day.

1999 AVALONS ARE THE BEST

Seriously consider this car

Great car bad seats

Fun Avalon

98 Avalon is the greatest car!

Muy Bien!

Peg's Avalon

Excellent Sedan 

Too Reliable?

Avalon's a Keeper

Great Vehicle

Toyota Avalon 1999 XLS

Best Car I've Ever Owned!!

Can't beat it.

XLS Platinum Edition

pretty nice car

Excellent value, comfort, performance

Love this car

Wind Noise is the Problem

My second AVALON

3rd Avalon

Dealership problems w/ Northridge Toyota

After 8 Years, Still Love It

Save your money. Own an Avalon

2001 AVALON  XL -- EXCELLENT

I'll be darned...

Toyota Avalon xls

Best car I have ever owned or driven.

Reliable road partner.

Original Owner for 14+ years/ 334 thousand miles

Low cost comfort

A Great Three Years

A Lexus without the price tag.

Great Luxury Car for the Money

Wonderful car

a nice car but

Great for the family

Great vehicle =, even as a used car

Reliable where it counts and nowhere else

Endless comfort and solidity

Couldn't Be Happier

The Best Car Out There!! Period

First and last moon-roof

Disappointed with Steering Problem

Concerned

Worrisome Steering 

Great Car!

GPS Madness

Why Lexus when you can have an Avalon?

Great Car - Terrible GPS

My New Avalon Is Gr8!

Great car, but uncomfortable seats

2011 Avalon

4th Avalon

Uniformed of truth on batterys

roomy avalon limited.

I've Owned Two

A home run!

Smooth

Exceptional value in its class.

Wonderful auto

Very Close to Lexus

Not as good as I thought I was getting

Is it Lexus LS/GS. No is 2011 AVALON

2nd one, and love it more!

2011 Avalon (Great car, Horrible dealership services)

I love my Avalon!

Malfunctioning extras are a pain

Lexus Beware!

Smooth, Quiet, Fast, and Great Mileage!

A Smart Man's Lexus

Edmunds Wrong

Steering Wheel always unlocking!

It is called a large car, but it isn't

I like my 09 avalon limited but....

Getting Better all the Time

Love My Avalon

Bought to sell, but decided to keep.

Better choice than a Jag

Love my long trip cruiser

Good all around car

2007 Avalon XLS

Die Hard Toyota Owner

DRONE Noise

Love My Avalon

2 problems, engine noise and battery problem

Plenty of Room in the Back

Oops!

Great car, could be even better.

Read the book first, then tell story

Help!                        

I absolutely love to drive it!

L-O-V-E this car!

Such a Deal!

Avalon - A luxury but affordable full size sedan

Whine in the transmission

13 

Great Car for the Money

Nice car

Frankie

Not as happy as I thought I would be...

2013 Toyota Avalon Touring

Update for star rating and other items

Nice ride but needs a few things.

Beware of buying the 2013 Avalon Limited

Avalon Definitely Not A Bomb

So far good except

High tire pressure ride problems.

Disappointing Comfort

After a couple of months

Awesome car

Premium Car Price Without Premium Ride, Quietness or Seat Comfort

Toyota Scores With Epic Retool

Great vehicle for a long trip anywhere!

Avalon Review

Great vehicle

Better Buy than Lexus 350

Best Car for the money

Touring - best choice for my needs

Sorry to let it go!

steaming pile

Great Car

Best Luxury Buy on the market!

An Exceptional Automobile

Far, far ahead of the rest of the field

Perfect under $40k car

My Excellent '07 Avalon Ltd.

Former Lifetime GM Owner

Big improvement

Good

Great value and a great car

Awesome

Waited 10 years

Good but not Great

is it a toyota?

Used but looks brand new!

Mississippi  John Hurt sings "Avalon"

My new boo!

Good deal

Perfect Toyota...as usual!

Great Engine

Exceptional

Nice car but

Wind & road noise

Amazing Ride comfort!

poor navigation system

Love this Car

Best large car

Radio Malfunction

Great Car But Minor Detail Issue

Poorly built

Holding it's value!

WILL NEVER TOYOTA AGAIN!!!

Unexpected Quality

Disappointed

love it

like it

Stinks in the snow

My first Toyota

Amazing Car to Drive!

Tech Car

Solid

The best car I've ever owned!

Warning on Toyota Period

This one I like

It is what we thought it would be...

Great Car Except Float Handling

2008 Avalon Limited not perfect

Love it! 

2nd Avalon

Cracks in Dash

A Perfect Car

People are complaining about reliability?

Sips gas, limo like back seat, great family car!

Large sedan, fast and reliable! Excellent MPG!

Questionable

Ultimate reliability

Why isn't this car talked about more?

NOT WHAT I IMAGINED

Pass on this car

This car is a sleeper

Greatest car from Toyota. 

Disappointed

Love It!

LessThan Perfect

Timing cover oil leak

Large Luxury, Great Value, Good Mileage

Dashboard and oil line

Best Car ever in the last 12 years

We LOVE our NEW USED Avalon

Toyota Quality?

2005 Avalon-Transmission Problems

In love with our AVALON

One Magnificent Automobile  

Above average returns on investment

...and a few years later

Not the Toyota I Expected

2005 Avalon Limited

Great bells and whistles but with dangerous flaw

Excellent

Broken Front Coil Spring

excellent car - reliable and full size car benefit

A GREAT car! With so much too offer!

Best Car I've Even Owned. Period

Best Toyota that I have owned

Comfort and reliability

Roomy and reliable

2004 avalon xl

I love this car!

Not what they used to be

Need More for the Money!

Bad front end Car is "2002 model"

would not buy it again

I love Avolon

'04 XLS Review - Fairly good Bang 4 Buck

Best kept secret ever 

The Japanese Buick

Best Car I have owned

Avalon 1994 xls

Avalon 04

AVALON

AVALON

Great Car

Nice cruiser roomy - noisy shocks

Tried em all

Best car I've driven, ever!

Best car I have ever had

One of the best cars ever

love this car!

Loved it! Buy one.

Best Car Ever?

What a car!

Best Car I've Owned

1st  Toyota

2002 Avalon XLS  - superior reliability

Great used car

Can't part with it

cove review

A bit more effort and it is a TEN

Love my car!

No problems at 177,000 miles

You Cannot Beat This Car!

Best Ever

8 yrs of comfort, speed, reliability

Avalon Is Great

Forever friend

In love with this car

So good, you will be bored... 

Simply the best

Roomy Toyota Sedan

Lost my Avalon - buying another

Great car 

Very Reliable & comfortable

Toyota is the Best

Excelente

Adding to the Echo Chamber in Here: Great! Best!

2001 Avalon

I have the only Avalon with problems

Champagne on a beer budget

Paint Problem

"love this car"

Wonderful

My wifes Avalon,

Very dependable

Love my Avalon!!

confident,reliability in my toyota avalon.

Best car i have ever had

302K and Still Going

Toyota Avalon xl

Better than a minivan

Outperforms Most Newer Cars

Exceptionally Reliable Car

My first car!

This thing just won't die

Still Like New

They don't make them like this anymore.

15 years and counting!

Teflon Avalon

200,000+ miles and still going strong

Toyota 2000 Avalon XLS

Love it or leave it.......can't decide

The Mighty Avalon

One year update with my 2000 Toyota Avalon.

Fantastic Family Car

Best car I've ever had!!

What A Diamond

Great Car

16 years 199,400 miles

Solid car

My New Old Car

Avalon for the win!

Original Owner

Disappointed with a reliable name!

Function over Form

OH WHAT A FEELING

This car just wont die!

Most Reliable! Fantastic! Safe Car Ever

Simply The Best!

Toyota, Need I say more?

Auto climate control /Beware

Incredible Car

Dependable with great value

Lots of miles...Running Great

After two years with Avalon

1997 Toyota Avalons - 2 of them

257,233 miles and going strong

Best full-size

Not so reliable

Still running great!!

Bought used/drives new

I wish I had a reason to buy a new car.

yota

I'd buy another one today

Great daily driver

Over 200K

Best Car I've Ever Owned

I LOVE THIS CAR!

Not the best choice

Perfect for young driver

Loving it

Incredible MPG - 2016 Avalon Hybrid.

I love it!

My Fourth Hybrid Toyota - working to perfect

Sleek hybrid

love my car!

My new Avalon

Awesome car

2014 Avalon Hybrid XLE Touring

Disapointed

What a let down!

2014 Avalon Touring. 

A smelly car

2 months and 3,500 miles

2014 Avalon Hybrid - Caveat Emptor

41 mpg

Uncomfortable Drivers Seat

Very Uncomfortable Seats. Stay Away!

An Avalon fan

Beauty

The Best Review Ever

Nice Car

Too soon to know

Disappointed in Toyota

Great Gas Mileage For A Big Car

Pretty but painful

Perfect....except for those bumps!

Mixed review

Bought car used 

Toyota Avalon xls

Quality ride

Worst car I ever owned

what a shame when quality is forgotten

engine burning oil

Navigation Disaster

Good Car, but Not Great

Solid Vehicle - Great Mileage

Fun - Sporty - And all the comforts

Great Gas Mileage

Perfect Car

My First Toyota

Hoping for many happy years!

2008 Camry Hybrid

incomplete according to gas mileage

Stay Away from 2008 Models

Great car purchase

No Problems and none expected

Great Car

Great MPG in relation to comfort/style

Not quite the car she used to be

LAST CAR

Dont buy this car!

Old man's experience

A great buy

Dangers of Auto Dimming Rear View Mirror

Terrible car, do not get! 

Great ride!

Jewel of a Car!

I got it right this time.

 I never thought I'd buy a hybrid until

The Smart Way To Move Forward - HYBRID

I heart my TCH even tho I didnt want to

Not To happy

I will never buy another Toyota AGAIN!!!

4 Years And Still Going

Great Family Vehicle

Great Car

An unremarkable car that does many things right

Happy camper

Updated Review After 5 years and 100k Miles

50K and still going strong

I'm sold (3 times)!

Ours is a 2009

A plus!

Still Lovin' It

surprised performance

Love this car

Perfect fit

Awesome all around car!

Great Car for the Money despite some shortcomings.

Wolf in sheep's clothing

Quiet and Upscale

Impressed Overall, with some caveats

Horrible front seat cushions. (*Hybrid model)

Great car 

Nice step-up

Deficiencies - annoying

Minor issues, but I love this car

Incredible value

2017 avalon hybrid

caraholic

38 mpg luxury

Favorite car ever!

You have to read this before you buy

Hybrid Avalon Touring 2014

2014 Avalon Limited

Want my 2003 Acura TL back

Don't leave home without your garmin gps

Could've been the best

Avalon No More

Poor performance, poor resale value, huge problem

Disappointed After One Year

Non-folding back seat

A stylish hybrid sedan

Best car I've ever owned!

good upon arrival but it seem to going down hill

2015 Avalon Touring xle

Should have researched more!

New ride quality a big disappointment

2015 Avalon Limited

Rides like  a truck. poor engineered struts.

Give this an extended test drive before buying!

We Call It "The Turnip"

Toyota Avalon-not just for the silver set anymore

Dad Got His Way!

terrific car that is let down by poor service

Horrible Ride

well worth the money

Lower Your Expectations

Lexus price but not Lexus quality

Worst entertainment system ever

Avalon has got it intact

So great I did it again!

Great Ride and Great Mileage

Better Than Expected!

Wanted to Love it!

Everything I was hoping for...

2016 Toyota Avalon hybrid Limited

Glare is a safety issue.

Great Great Car!

Luxury and quality for less

Duck!

not as pleases as time goes on

Silver Avalon

Saved my life

Avalon is as good as any Lexus orBMW for much less

I like the Avalon so muh this is my second.

Liked my older Avalon better

Grand ma Avalon

No Apple Carplay - I am switching to Acura

Impressive Car

Recommend to others

Hidden problems - antiquated electronics, cheap pa

Toyota Stinks

Hard-to-beat Value

Nice Ride

Toyota had a great car that has lost appeal

Is it all the hype?

Driving for nearly 30 years, my first new car!

Love the 2016 Avalon LTD

Good looks, Amazing Value

Still loving this car after a year

Luxury without luxury price

As close to Lexus as you need to get

A great car for us -

th Avalon and this is "one" of the best

My Favorite Car EVER

Touring IS Stiff, but others are NOT

Happy with my 16 Toyota Avalon XLE

Love it!

Good to go

Update on review

I Love It

2010 Camry Hybrid

Very Nice Camry Hybrid for 2010

Quiet ride with great MPG

Highway Mileage 43.5

My First Toyota - But My Second Hybrid

Holy Cow!!!!!

396K+

Sally's Car

Typical Toyota Except for

best car ever made 

Worse than my mother in law

Great car.

I wouldn't have it any other way!

Best car ever for me

Love it!!

BEST FRIGGIN CAR IN THE WORLD!

Best car in the world

The ultimate car

poor reliability

Keeps Going and Going

Fabulous car

Thanks Toyota!

Super High Milage

Love it

Bought this car because of these reviews

It's been a good car.

1992 TOYOTA CAMRY; 4-CYLINDER

camry review

1992 TOYOTA CAMRY; 4-CYLINDER

It Doesn't Get Any Better!

Such Endurance...

Thought It Was Good

Voted Best Midsize Sedan for 1994

94 4-Door XLE V6

Falling apart

good buy

GOOD CAR POOR WORKMANSHIP

the best car besides a supra

Your Dream Car

mannie 1994

Great reliable car with over 200K miles

Do Not Hesitate - Best Car I've Owned

Can't get anything better

Love my car!

96 Camry LE

Great Buy!!!

SACRIFICING RIDE AND COMFORT FOR HANDLING.

Literally a tank

Long lasting

Runnig great for over 125,000 miles

Great car

Good car, not great quality.

Camry is the Car

Superb reliability

First Car

Just can't part with it!

Great Car but easy to be stolen

Best Car I have owned!

Extremely reliable car

!996 Toyota Camry

Love x 2

1996 and still LOVE my Camry Collector Edition!!

Best affordable car ever

Great Car!

I must have gotten the lemon

Camry for Life

Great teenager car!

What a great car

2ndTimeAround

I hope it lasts 1 million miles

Great Used Car

Think twice before you buy one

1995 toyota camry LE 4cyl

My First Car

Best Car I've Ever Had!!!!

I love my Camry wagon even tho it's old

1995 Camry XLE, GREAT CAR

296,700+ miles and going strong..

A wonderful car to drive, it glides

You have to see this!

Wish I had another one

Great vehicle

Old Reliable!!!

Love it 

Teddy 1997 Toyota Camry LE

Amazing!

Unsurpassed Reliability

Old Reliable...

Old trusty

much better used

Best car I have ever owned!

97 Toyota Camry = Bored Mechanic

386 thousand miles and still running

Pure Drive For Years

Amazing Car

This car won't die.

95 Toyota Camry

225,000 miles, runs fine

Wish I could buy a new one

96 Camry Collectors Edition Going Strong

Camry forever

Great car sorry to see it go.

Way better than the 07 XLE V6

Pleased

OK ride

ITS LOVE

200,000 and still going strong

Solid Value

Disapointed

61.1 MPG

New Hybrid Owner

Not Getting neare 40 mpg

STINKS

A Darn Good Car

What A CAR!

A Classic

Reliable Car

It's Like a Tank - A Plastic One

Great Car

a short some where

I love my Camry

Did its job

I'd buy another

The Best

Best Car We've Ever Bought!

Not what it's cracked up to be

Surprisingly... Terrible Car

'93 Toyota Camry Auto 200k+ miles

Awesome. Even for a teenager!

Excellent Basic Transportation

Great!!

Outstanding Vehicle

Reliable ride

Absolutely the best vehicle I've owned

old V6 Camry outruns new sports cars

Not as good as others I guess

1990 Camry V6 DX

beating the system by winning at the gas tank

Great Automobile!  Loaded with features!

Best Value, Quality, Performance

Hard to Beat (And I've Tried)

NEVER LEASE OR BUY TOYOTA   over rated reputation

best car ever

Great first car!

Almost 200K Miles and Still Rolling

Good car

Best toyota evert made!

They don't build them like this anymore

Solid, Reliable, Value.

experience with my camry

Only car I ever want

Bulletproof

keeps on keeping on

Hoping for 400k

350k!!!!

the man

Unbelievable quality!

An outstanding vehicle that deserves consideration

FrenchFry Is Riight Awesome

2014 Camry Hybrid

Reliabile, good mileage, low maintenance vehicle

Which Hybrid to choose....

Toyota is slipping.

Lots of pep!

Great car but there is a smell from vents

Great Car!

Great Gas Mileage

MPG Not Even Close! Rip Off

Try out a hybrid for a diffent approach to driving

This is a really, really nice car!

A Happy Customer

Still best fuel mileage ever!!!!!

these cars rule

OMG!! I'm in love with this car

Best Car We've Ever Owned

Best car ever!

Smart and pretty

Great car

Great Car

Awesome car

Olde Timer but Reliable

Quality

Good, indeed its not american

wonderful car

Good riddance

Hell of a yoda

1991 CAMRY

Excellent Car

Good Car!!

Well worth it

Not bad for 17 yrs old.

Problem Car

Very Disappointed Former Camry Owner!!!!

an AMAZING CAR!

I love this car! 

"old" Toyota quality

1991 Camry, my favorite car!

Mileage Improved

I'm sold (3 times)!

Variability in Quality

Bought again second one

Value for Money

Great Car!

Almost bought a Sonata

Quiet & Smooth like a Lexus

Wonderful Car

My First Experience with a Hybrid

Fir and Finish

First impressions

THE 2012 TOYOTA CAMRY XLE HYBRID offers the BEST VALUE, DRIVE,COMFORT, RIDE, AMENITIES & MILEAGE EVER!!

Surprising performance

Motorboating

Improved over prior model, but problem details

1500 mile road tewst.

Best Hybrid avalible!!!

Very impressed!

Best Hybrid or sedan right now

Been 3 years

Best Hybrid I have ever owned or driven!

Hybrids have moved up!

Total Driving Enjoyment

tiptoe steering & then bliss

Great car. Amazing ride quality and comfort.

Much More Than Expected

OH, WHAT A FEELING!!

XLE Hybrid

Chose XLE Hybrid over Fusion Hybrid

HYBRID ALL THE WAY!

Excellent, good to be back in a Camry

Excellent all-round car

First Toyota, First Hybrid

2010 Camry Hybrid

moved up from Prius

Unassuming overachiever

Wow what a car!

Disappointing

Glad to be back in a Toyota

Pleasantly surprised

At 75,000 miles and Running Great

Great for the Money

1 year- 40mpg

So far, so good.

great car

Great Purchase

Not for me

Search if over

Very nice all around!

LOVING MY C-HR!

If you choose a Hybrid, get a Toyota

Car good, manuals/electronics operation bad. 2017

Happy with purchase

Great Choice Camry

Go Hybrids!  Camry efficiency excels again!

Hot Little SUV

Love My 2016 RED Toyota Camry Hybrid SE

Great sedan; value packed and quick for a Hybrid

2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid SE

Love this car

Didn't think I'd get a NEW Camry-Update

Best car I ever purchased.

my Camry XLE Hybrid - great performance, pizzazz!

My second Camry Hybrid

Best car for the money by far!

Love My Camry

Love My V6 XLE

Loyal Toyota Owner

Transmision 

4 years in LA traffic...

Reliable, and fun!

BEST car ever

Satisfied Camry Owner

The Best Vehicle We've Ever Owned

I Can't Wear It Out - No Excuse To Buy A New One

Best older gen Camry

So far so good

Best generation of Camry, in my opinion

Family hauler for 13 years, still going strong

100k+ and aiming for a million

Acceleration Issues & Rattling Noises

Camry just don't die

No Problems

S'alright

Jerky/Slow responding Camry

Jerky disappointment

Most reliable car I've ever owned.

Camry vs Accord

My Ride Camry V6

Most decent car bough longest car kept

HESITATION problem!

Ignorant Navigation!

Disappointed in shift

Best car for the money

Camry 2006 - V6 3.3 SE

camry lover

Jerky Camry

2006 4 cyl camry

No complaints

Best value for the money

Going Strong

225,000 miles strong!

2002 Toyota Camry XLE (2.4L)

6 yrs old and flawless

Don't buy it

2002 Camry XLE

Stripped Pistons

satisfied, but would consider others, too

02 Cmary LE

Very pleased

White smoke problem

Material and Mechanical Parts are so Cheap

05 Camry XLE 4 CYL  

Still a great car after 11 years

Camry 
Like, but not Love, my XLE

Good solid car

My newest Camry

2005 Camry with balky transmission

I can't complain

Good Choice

Love my Camry

Good Automatic transmission

I like it!

Not the quality I expected

good basic car

Why Didn't I Get the Hyundai?

Couldn't Be Happier

Reliable Point a to b transportation - otherwise kinda boring

People who don't like this car have never owned one!

Worst Car I have ever owned-Cheaply made

My 3rd Camry

Handles well, underpowered

No more Tire Pressue display?

Best Value family sedan

1st & last Camry

2012 LE Camry

It's a good car that will go for the long run

Serendipity to the 4th power-*update

Camry SE V6 wins in very tough segment

Entune connection

Great all around car for performance and camry

2012 camry Se 2.5 4 cylinder

2nd time Camry buyer

Good value for the price

2012 Toyota Camry Highway Perfection

Great car

Can't beat em

GREAT CAR!

Adequate, in the best sense of the word. 

Pleasantly surprised!

Well done, Toyota

Former Corolla Owner - This Feels Like Real Luxury

I like it, but a step back?

love this

First Camry for me

Overall the best value in its segment

Fun To Drive

2013 Camry - 2 days old

Still Best in CLASS and Value after 4 Years, 58XXX

I went with the Camry.

My 1st Camry

10K Miles and No Complaints

Overall good choice for mid sized sedan

Fast, quiet, and very comfortable

2013 Camry XLE V6

Static on Radio when using Rear Defrost since purchased

A Great Vehicle

4 Camry Family

Not good on snow or ice

Still excellent

Tire alignment problems

Issues with Acceleration

Toyota moving Backwards

very uncomfortable driver seat

Excellent Family Car

Reliable, Dependable, Cool Ride..............

Sporty Camry SE has some shortcomings

Undeserved Reputation

215,000 miles and going strong

Nice, Reliable, Comfortable, Economical

Update after 2yrs. of ownership

2010 Camry LE 2.5 automatic

Great value

Camry LE  4cyl 2011

ABS Brake NOISE

v4 vs. V6

I really don't know which reports are ture

This car is great

2011 Camry XLE

Absolutely blown away!

Still running like new around 100K

Roomy ride.

For all the Camry lovers out there this is THE CAR.

Just Finished A 1 Week Rental...

My new XSE

Terrible front seats

Great Car - Except for the Stereo

Big step up!

Second Camry

Love my new Camry SE!!!

Great standard transportation.

vibration in gear

2014 camry LE

Reminds me of my Celicas

Great value for the money

Worst driver seat EVER!!!

It's a Camry!

Toyota Camry SE from a E 350

Front seat issue

2015 CAMRY XLE is the best mid-sized sedan

2015 Camry SE 2.5

Awesome Car-----JUNK TIRES

2015 Toyota Camry

You get what you pay for!

2015 toyota camry le

Make sure you have the right tires!

Personality and practicality

2015 Camry LE

We are a Camry Family

love my toyota

Mileage

mold/mildew blowing a/c not covered under warrenty

My Camry

less pay for the value

The Shudder Monster

battery issues

Jack of Most Trades; Perfect Cruiser

 Converter/trans Shudder 4cyl 2014 1/2 Camry SE

Excellent Car!!

Toyota Camry XLE V6 is the best

Good car for long trips, definitely not a race horse!

My 2011 Camry

2011 Camry manual transmission

My new 2014 Camry vibrates made me seasick

New Camry is a big blunder

Best car ever for this class!

Stinky Camry

Disappointed with Camry L MPG

what these fools talkin bout?

loved it

Oil and Engine Issues :(

Not happy with quality

Hat!e It

We got a lemon

Refined motoring

Good Machine

200k, The Most Reliable Car I Have Ever Owned

I love this car

You can't do better!

The Good Bad and Ugly

The BEST and most RELIABLE car

Best Car I've driven and owned

Reliable' but lacking

Dashboard Sticky and Melting in Sunlight

I am in awe at what a piece of crap this car is

2009 Base Camry

Not happy

Oil today and gone tomorrow!

Toyota Camry - Made in Georgetown, KY

I'm impressed

old reliable

Great and reliable car

Very Dependable and Comfortable Car

Best car I ever owned

Good

CE 4cyl  5spd 

Mr. Dependable

Toyota fan

Transmission lag

CV Joint Defective

Easy To Choose

Good Car for the Money

Uses Oil Between Changes

Purchased in Kissimmee, FL with 179K miles

2002 Toyota Camry MAINTENANCE

Best car Toyota made ever

"Old Faithful" 285,000 miles & counting

wow camry

Very nice at 100K+

Most Reliable Car Ever Built

Dissatisfied owner

375,000 going strong 

Toyota Camry Not A Toy

Almost 200,000 Miles and still running

Great, reliable car with only 66750 miles.

Great for value and year!

Has been in the family since 2001

Disappointed

Toyota is loosing ground to others

2008 Toyota Camry SE V6

First new car in 30 years.

An Excellent Value

Do Your Research!

SAVED MY LIFE

Unbeatable value.

Gallery Edition

I'm Jealous

It won't die.

Disappointing

What Camry should be!

Excellent condition, reliability, low mileage.

As usual, cannot see blind spot

What happened Toyota?

Excellent Commuter Car

Poor Build Quality

bought in 197k miles. still runs great

Love this car

I'm sold on Camrys

Buyer beware

Not Toyotas Finest Effort

Best car I have owned so far!

Toyota Technician Fires Manufacturer

Done with Toyota Never Again!!!!

Great Car

Disappointment on Camry

Awesome Buy

BEFORE YOU BUY

Not completely satisfied

Recall Needed

Transmission Hesitates Dangerously 

Camry Shines in the Limelight Once Again

Great CAR

Side air bags?

Poor engine/transmission performance

So far, so good

Great Fix for the Glitch

Shame On Toyota

2007 Camry SE - I4 - Auto

A Pretty Great Car

Camry.com (not real website)

Boring though solid and reliable 76k miles later

reliable and comfortable

Best car I've owned

2006 Toyota Camry

Best car for around 20k

Great Car, Excellent Performance

If it is used, it is used up.

Nice car but

Love It!

Problems

love my camry

Dependable!

still going strong

Not up to Toyota Quality Standards

Excited about a Camry

No Power

Toyota has no credability

Poor take off

231,000 Miles and Still Going!

Best car I ever owned

Throttle Body Failure - Recall Coming?

Satisfied Customer

Disappointing for Toyota tradition

196,000 Miles... Time to buy another used Camry

Best car ever!!!

Still Solid After a Decade

Love my Toyota!

Impressed

overall great car

Toyota Camrys Rock

Skeptical, but impressed!

the best car ever made

Unreliable & Expensive to Fix

One of my best cars ever!

Best Car Ever!

2003 Toyota Camry

2003 Camry

Fun to drive

104K Still Going Strong

Extremely unhappy Camry owner

Fun To Drive 2003 Camry XLE-V6

Fantastic car that has withstood the ultimate test

380k and Still going

Great while it lasted, beware of known issue

310K and still going!!!!

Owned since brand new in 2003

Great Car!

Toyotas win my vote all day long.

Extremely disappointed - engine problems

dont buy this car get a 2004 and up

Couldn't ask for more, especially at 215k miles

My car, totaled, but I walked away

93 Camry XLE 4 Cyl.

I'm a Honda guy, but this car changed the game..

Camry a.k.a. TANK!

Satisfied!

Toyota at Its Best

98 LE 4cyl

EGR valve

325,000 Miles and still going strong

Most Reliable Car I've Ever Owned

Most reliable car ever!

Sad it's Dying

I love this car!

disappointed

Audi for VW price

Oh if only they made all cars like this

Second Time Owning A Camry!

Great Car

Great car!

What a car!!!

Reliable, but plain grandma car

What a car....

1999 Camry V6 Auto - keeps running

Had 2 1999 Manual V6 Camrys.

Just like everyone else

Best car ever

WOW

Car is outstanding, seats are awful.

MY 1999 TOYOTA CAMRY 

I am the original owner

Second Camry

Toyota camry the boss

1999 Camry CE 286K

Bullet proof

Will it make it to 300K

Boring & wonderful

My favorite car of all time

1999 - Original Owner and still going and going and going....

Good reliable car

The Car That Never Dies

21,000 miles in

Camry more than you would expect

Progress and Its Discontents  II

Noisy Interior

Review of 2016 Camry xse

Best-priced but must drive first

I hate the Stereo, but I do love the car

best car i have ever owned

Mostly awesome

not so great lots of little things are really poor

DEFECTIVE new 2017 Toyota Camry!!

Good pricing and good card

Nice so far

I just keep buying Camrys

LOVE THIS CAR!!!!

Good value

Best car I have ever owned!

ACCELERATING IN REVERSE/ BRAKES LOCKING

2017 Camry XLE, Very nice car with poor GPS App

Just 1110 miles so far.

Great SUV

Almost Perfect

HL in Russia

Rock Solid

Neat truck

Great Value

Very satisfied owner

High Mileage pitfalls

Huge disappointment 

Awesome suv

New Owner-Wierd Issues

Former Toyota...stripped head bolts

Buyer beware

Disappointed

Mechanically reliable, no frills vehicle.

Thumbs Up!!

Good Car

Convinced

Highlander 

Best of the best

my review

Good, but need better mileage &visabilit

highlander 2004

Highlander Limited 4WD

Solid As A Rock

Keith

Switched from Honda to Toyota

2017 Camry le

fitrst time toyota buyer

You get what you pay for

Driver-side Window

Amazing!

Comfy, but lacks refinement

Dissapointment in entire toyota nation

Great SUV 

My First Toyota/SUV

Excellent SUV

High Marks For Highlander

Love It

Way too much road noise!

1st SUV

2011 Highlander Limited AWD

Great SUV

luv the mileage

Great SUV

Great ride!

Can't go wrong

best in its class

More than I expected

2010 highlander-one year later

great suv

Cargo space?

Best Crossover Available

Great SUV

Perfect SUV 

Awesome MPG and comfortable ride, no cargo space

It's okay.

Pretty Happy

Great car, not true it can tow 5,000 lbs

Highlander 

7 Years Later, Still A Solid Vehicle

Not Perfect, But OK

Quiet ride

I like it!

Great SUV

Entune sysem is garbage

Mixed Review

4th & Favorite Toyota!

Rear Entertainment System issue

Just out of warranty, radio, Nav unit broke - Ugh

Trust Toyota

Good, solid Auto-Just the right size

My Grocery getter

Great, versatile vehicle

We like it

Build Quality, Reliability & Buttery Ride

Take the High road with a Highlander!

Just Took Delivery

GREAT CAR

Great Ride, Good MPG,= Happy Owners

Highlander is the only car for me!

Struts busted on 6k miles

Built to Tow

a dream drive

Everything is perfect

I did way to much research

From Venza To Highlander

My Highlander

Fails to start after sitting

Problems with Toyota Highlander

So far So great

Looking for my third highlander

Great!Highlander

Love this car!

4 cylinder worth consideration 

after 1 year, just ok

Comfy family vehicle for all events

Small & Quick

Great, but not perfect

Good Solid Value

Great SUV!

The best bang for your buck for a 4 banger mid size suv

Mostly as expected but not everything

Best in Class!

Great SUV

Cannot go wrong with Highlander!

Highlander SPORT 

Don't by Toyota

Dissapointed

First Toyota - Hoping for Better

Rear end noise 

Great SUV for the family !

Platinum Is Golden!

Good Overall But Could Be Better

Review of first 6 months.....

My greatest CUV ever

Excellent Choice Overall - only minor issues

Everything is great except for fuel economy

Not a Seven Passenger Vehicle

Great SUV.  But the JBL Radio?

The Good, The Bad, & The Beautiful

2014 is awesome !

Quiet and comfortable

Now at 36K.     1-15-17

Definitely a family car 

Great SUV, gas guzzler

2012 Highlander 2.7L 4 Cyl w/ Tech Package & Leather

Love my Highlander

Purchased New February 2012, Would Buy Again

2012 HIGHANDER 2.7L i-4 w/ integrated Nav

Its a great buggy!

Toyota Got it Right

Not as rugged as I had hoped for

Toyota Nailed It!

Trouble starting after 10k miles

2012 Highlander Limited

Nice all around car

Love our Highlander...Again!

2012 Toyota Highlander (2.7L 4cyl) w/ Nav.7 17'alloy wheels

My mistake, don't make it yours

Highland 2012 - Problems

Its a mixed bag

Should have ignored rep and bought hybrid

2012 Toyo Highlander - Overhead Console

My new 4Runner

Stay away from the Pricy Nav System

2011 Toy Highlander V6 4WD

Very Nice Vehicle

Satisfied

Great car...some quality issues...poor customer experience...

Great SUV BUT Some Very Annoying Design Features

A great car

Well Made SUV

Smart Choice

Review at 52,000 miles (5 years of ownership)

Not as reliable as Toyota's should be

Tire size for replacement HUGE problem

SUV Great Electronics NOT

Best Bang For Your Buck

Never again!

3rd Toyota purchase

Best Purchase Yet!

The nicest Toyota yet.

Perfect!

Sure it's not a Lexus?

Highlander Love

Great Value - except Tires

Good Choice

Excellent highway cruiser

water pump issues and tires

Ol' Reliable - so reliable I bought another

Cold Seats

I Love My Toyota

Great SUV

Real world car

Long Lasting!

M next car will be again a Higlinder 

Best choice out there

Great car. Good value. Good daily driver

Reliable S.U.V.

Wonderful Hwy Cruiser

Smooth, Solid Ride - 2007 Highlander

review

Great SUV/CUV

Basics Work

Transmission SUCKS!! You've been warned

Defective cylinder head bolt threads

Great SUV

Great SUV

Somewhat of an expert...

Vibration Driving me crazy

Best SUV value

Most boring & best vehicle I have owned

Wonderful Road Trip Vehicle

Best Value for the money

My 06 Highlander sport

My Sport

Love My Car

So far, so good

Almost there

Solid and dependable

2015 and hoping for another 9 years

Still love it 6 years later

Still love it 3 yrs later!

Missing refinement

8+ years and 111,000 miles and keeps on going

2nd One owned

Best family car ever owned!

Faithful,Reliable, and Powerful

Major Disappointment

Highlander - perfect reliability 5 years

Save Yourself the Pain

Heater Woes

Very Pleased

Superb vehicle

All is well except the paint!

No Value

satisfied

Disappointed

The good and the bad (in my opinion)

Too many issues

Still hard to beat after 7 years and nearly 100,000 miles

Top value

2004 Toyota Highlander

Great Little SUV

My first car!

In love after all these years.

Age is only a number

Value for Money

2005 Toyota Highlander Fwd 4dr SUV (2.4L

2016 Camry SE

Can't believe it's the Camry

Definitely NOT the Camrys I have owned previously.

Another satisfied customer.

Rear Windshield Blurry

this car for safety

xticx

Perfect

Nellie Highlander

You can depend on this one.

No Complaints 

11 Years In Still Solid

2004 Toyota Highlander

Expensive to maintain

My Highlander

New 2017 Toyota Camry LE

2017 Camry XSE V6

Good value

Not bad at all!

Great for the money compared to others in segment!

Bad Choice...

Love my 2008 Highlander

great until hidden costs get you...

2008 and newer highlander V6 engine issues

Great SUV ---watch out for rubber oil cooler lines

2016 Toyota Camry XSE 4cyl.

Very Stylish and Sporty

Drive them before buying and not for a few miles

Great reliable car at a reasonable price

Cheap, loud interior

Technology Sucks

Nice car with a few glaring flaws

Great vehicle except -

After 2 years of research

A good buy

good vehicle

Overall a very good car

NOT WORTH THE MONEY

Best SUV I've Ever Owned

2016 Toyota Highlander

Lexus in Toyota Clothing (with sportier handling)

Great Family SUV

Never thought I would switch from Honda!

Waited 11 years

Love my Highlander!

Must be a lemon

Second Highlander even better than our first

Poor MPG

Great vehicle but pricey

Missed the mark but the SE is a good SUV

Toyota 1992

nothing like a corolla

Not fast or flashy, but very reliable

Reliable workhorse

Great car

You cannot kill this car!

Still Running Strong

Toyota Corolla LE 2002

dependable

Great Buy!

1990 Corrola GT-S

Go Goldie Go!!!

Reliable Hassale Free Car

Miss it

Extraordinary

2017 Toyota Highlander Crushes the Competition

THE BEST HIGHLANDER TO BOOT!

Great all around Mid-Size SUV

Good car, but no Honda Pilot.

Growing Appreciation and Satisfaction

The first car i drove.

Toyota rocks

Can't hate it, Can't live without it.

My years with a Toyota Corolla

I loved this car!

Love my  Little Station Wagon

Most reliable car ever owned

I Believe This Car Will Last Forever!

the best

1995 toyota review

very good car

The Best Car I've Ever Owned

Very reliable car, I love it!!

to know how to sell the best price

great car

I Loved My Car!!!!

The Corolla that could

Takes a lickin' and keeps on tickin'

Engine will out live the body

Excellent

OK car

keep it forever

It's as good as they say

Corolla: Great Car

owner

"Old Reliable"

Fantastic Car

I love this car

Toyota Corolla 1995

Two generations could not kill it

It just keeps going, and going....

Dependable and Long Lasting

Awesome Car!

Reliability times 100

Ol' Faithful 

Can't Get More Car for Your Change

used car

Pretty good reliable car

Great Car for the Money

Not Bad

Takes a Licking-keeps on ticking

Flintstones' vehicle

Trouble free and economical

This car is amazing!

Beauty in the eyes of the beholder

A couple of hundred miles without gas!

guess i didnt get luck in toyota

Long term owner

Cheap, reliable car

Eh possibly my last corolla

Esther's Interior departing

Great Deal

Great Car

13 years of non-stop use without any breakdown

Decent car for the money

Great Car

Rockin' Rolla

Terrible interior, terrible gas mileage

Realiable, boring, and can't handle.

I should have got a Celica or Prelude

Slightly disappointed

Great car, with one huge exception:  burns oil

Never let me down

Krakow

Motor went

MY TOYOTa

This car saved my life!

Great little econocar

Most Reliable Car ever,,

Very reliable car

Mine may have been a lemon

AWESOME DEPENDABLE CAR!!!

ultimate reliability

BUILT TO LAST

Worst $2400 ever spent

Great Car Great Value

Very Economical

Runs and Runs 

I got rid of it!

gets the job done perfectly

It is a great reliable car

It Just Won't Die

Now this is a Toyota

Oil Burner

My 2000 Corolla still kicking butt at 151,000 miles

Ideal City Car

Best Car I ever owned!

If it breaks down i will go buy the SAME CARE AGAIN SAME YR!

Great Value, Reliable

Good Choice

Great Car

Corolla with no repair bills!

One Great Car

Best Compact Sedan on the Market!

Very Reliable

Corolla Rolls On and On

Good, reliable, no frills drive

Review of the Toyota Corolla 1997 DX 

Safety outweighs fun!

Long life

Worst Car I've ever driven!

get a honda

500 miles per week commute

Love this car

Almost Flawless

Never owned such a great car

Bullet Proof

Most Reliable Car ever Made!!

Car of the century

Best Car in History

Best car ever.

My car has 341000 miles

Great Car !!

An Old Reliable Friend

AWESOME!

Could not kill it! 

I love my Sandpiper!

Love this car!

Jane's sand colored car.

Great little workhorse!

Wish it would last forever...

lucies best

Sold

Best investment ever

Will it last forever?

Practical 

My Little Toyota

Too hyped.  Very uncomfortable vehicle

Not too good of a car

Basic Meh! Transportation

Best Little Wagon

1996 Corolla That Gave It's Life for Me

Best car i ever owned!

My favorite car ever

One great little car.

A good reliable car

BUY IT!!!

1996 toyota corolla

Great Car

Want Another

It Just Won't Die

Corolla LE

My Corolla is still going strong...

Nothing ever goes wrong with this car.

PaZaZZ

Still loving this car

uhmazing

1994 Toyota Review

Corolla - A winner!

a true keeper

The mighty Corolla

Slow acceleration

Free Ride

Love my car

If I had a time machine..

Modestly one of the best

VICK's

Still Ticking!

Corollas are great

Great Car

Why did they stop making this car?!

Ol' Reliable - Will Run Forever!!!

294,000 and runs like new!

Best I ever had

253,000 and still going strong!

Glad I Chose This As My 1st Car

Keep it Simple

The Best Vehicle

Toyota Corolla sr5 awd wagon

A great car , But it is really very outdated !

Safe car

I love this car

94 corolla

Corolla wagon

Loved my Toyolla

Reliable car 

Almost 300k and still going

great car

The best car you can get!!!

93 corolla

317745 

If you find one GRAB IT!

Best car ever built?

Not like a real Toyota

Great first car, but a few issues

Can't Kill It

Its fair...

Good car to drive

Awesome littile car

good car to get from a to b with

The best I have ever owned.

Great second car option

Excellent Value for Money, Easy to Drive

Lovin Yota's

Best Car Ever

Amazing

My first Corolla

The best car I've ever owned

What a great car!

corolla le

Reliable car, fun on twisties

Great Choice for First Car

Best $500 I've spent....

One of my FAVORITE cars!

Almost the worst car I have ever owned

Wagon: Excellent Reliability, Good MPG 

reliable reliable

You can't find a better car

My Rolla

Japanese Quality

buyer beware

Cheap PLASTIC wheel covers on Limited

Buzzing along......

Long Time Toyota Fan "However"

The seats need tweaking. But 2 year in I love it.

Keep on buzzing

Buyer Beware - Buzzing Will Drive You Crazy

Excellent Family vehicle for tall drivers with lots of legroom

New Highlander - Love to Hate it

Happy So Far, despite quirks

In love with my Highlander, but a couple of things

Can't get past the buzzing any I'm not alone!

Saved my family's life-literally

One of the few best out there

No complaints but we haven't bonded

4 Cylinder gets great Mileage!

2015 toyota highlander

Too Many Pages in Manuals.

Excellent All Around Car

toyota skimps on seating construction

Best Car Ever

Rosten rubber down the street!

all-trac with good gas mileage? YES!

Great starter car for a broke kid

Super Car!

Best SUV I Have Owned

The wind noise!

From a Prius to  Highlander...

Wow!

Great car for the money

Spacious cabin and features for the little ones!

Early Review - Good Car, Good Value

Very Disappointing At This Point!

Great all-round SUV

Best 3 row SUV in its class!

Highlander Limited - First 4K Miles

Still lovin' the Highlander

Love my new Highlander

Now I know why Toyota is the worlds best selling !

4Runner for Highlander

Its OLD

Best car!!!!1

Role Model

economical car

Great Little Warrior

Reliable, Slightly Zippy Commuter Car

Love my Corolla

Keeps going, and going, and ...

Love my Corolla!!!

Most reliable car

super basic transportation

Just purchased it at 182,256 miles!

Excellent car

Reliable Piece of Junk

2002 Toyota Corolla S 

Fuel Saver

energizer bunny

Very dependable

first and best so far

Great Reliable car!

A very noisy automobile.

Best Car I've Ever Owned!

Best Car

COROLLA 'S'

Poor Quality in a Corolla

Nice car, but uncomfortable

Wouldn't own anything else but a Toyota

Oh how I miss my baby.

 2004 Corolla S

I tried it, and I liked it alot...

Most reliable car I have ever owned

Not up to my expectation

Not So Hot

Love it

Big guy little car

The worst driving position

Does not deliver on the looks it promises

becareful of the ac system

Still a Gorgeous design.

Great car

Great car, highly recommend this vehicle.

Toyota Corolla continues to surprise.

33,333 miles yesterday

My 2nd Corolla

My 2nd 2009 Corolla

Disappointing Mileage with Poor Tires

Love my baby Lexus

Not too shabby

2003 Toyota Corolla LE

A Compromise

I hate what you do for me Toyota.

Highly dissapointed- will never buy Toyota again

Our best car ever!

Extremely disappointed

40,000 and counting

Wish I had my Camry back

Deeply disappointing

Extremely disappointed

Dont ingore the car cause it's a corolla

Amazing little car! Best commuter car

great car except for paint job

Just ok

I've had Toyotas since 1971 My NX car Hyundia Sanota

2009 Toyota Corolla S

It gets the job done!

Just Like a mini-camry

Just bought.

Best car for the money you pay

Reliable But Boring

Perfect for Econ-Minded

My first Corolla and really like it so far

Quality Corolla

Toyota fan since birth

Great car for the price

Great car but have the right expectations

1 Month Review: A Value Proposition

2014 Toyota Corolla S Plus

Excellent redesign makes for a much improved Corolla!

I think I have a lemon :(

60,000 miles on s-speed manual

Great value car

Corolla review 123

GREAT CAT

sporty car

Corolla creams the competition

Enjoyed it while I had it but decided to trade in. 

Wow

Classy Ride

Toyota corolla... Do you have to say anything else?

Great buy

Fast for its class, not comfortable

Get up and go!!

Good car with looks and features, noisy cabin

Great car!

Fun Little Commuter

Beats Nissan and Honda

New Car

fun loving car

I was loyal

Wondering about the mileage

2013 S Special Edition

So far so good!

2013 Corolla white paint mismatch

Should have bouth the Civic. 

Love my Toyota Corolla

Better then the Elantra

Great affordable, reliable, commuter car.

Sporty Commuter Car

car making noise

Corolla Type S 2013 - Automatic

Best car ever

2013 Corolla S. 

My Third Corolla - I Really Like It

Lovely Car

Just what I needed

Excellent car for the money

Gramps first compact car.

Reliable car!!!

Good price- Good return

Good value for an inexpensive car.

Jaunty Wheels

10 year old car - Still a gem!!

A great car

104K mi and still a beast

Easy Ride and Practical

Solid, well built car

Second Corolla

As Expected - Reliable Vehicle

Good little car

Lightning Issue PLEASE READ!

Great Buy

Love This Car!

Good value for the money

Air bags add security

Reliable, smart, Corolla

Uncomfortable seats

Convenient

Good commuter car

A Pleasure to Own

Compromise

2015 Corollary LE Plus fits the bill.

Good Value Option

inspect windshield before buying

An Awesome Daily Driver

Headlights are a disaster

I don't think I'll become a fanboy

Stay Away!!!

Toyota corolla 2017 LE

They should not have changed it

You Get What You Pay For

Better than the 2014 Civic

Love this car!

Cylinder Head Replaced at 13,500, Probable Factory Milling Issue

Big Step Forward & Worth The Wait

Corolla L 6 speed manual update

No fog lights on any Corolla!!!!!!!!!

Front seats are awful

My new Corolla

I hate this car!

Toyota lost a fanboy.

They should not have changed it

Love it

Solid car, but not much fun to drive

Like it so far

Nightmare experience

Average

TYPE S  AND LOVING IT.

Squishy ride and horrible brakes

Toyota Carolla

Good on gas, horrible build quality.

Reliability and great looks.

First Thousand Miles - Excellent

First Toyota

Corolla S Plus - Excellent Car so Far

Value Car

Beautiful Simplicity!

Corolla is still a leader

2012 Toyota Corolla - Great Car!

2012 corolla best deal around!

Great Little Car

take a look at the 2012 Corolla S

Great car that's reliable and economic

2012 Corolla LE

20 K in 8 mos

I LOVE My Corolla!

Excellent Budget Purchase

Love my Sleek and Sporty Corolla S!

A Real Review of the 2010 Corolla S

Engine Malfunction (Internal malfunction in the throttle body assembly)

Toyota goes cheap while others pony up!

Beauty and Durability...

2012 Corolla

nothing boring about this car

Corolla 2012

That affordable car everyone buys

Great Car for the Money

Simply an All-Around Great Small Car

Excellent value, great mileage

Great mileage so far.....

Best Car I Own

OK Car, but wouldn't buy another one

42,000 miles of smiles!!!!

Best of the Compacts!!!

Great economy car

Love the Corolla

Great Small Car

2010 Corolla LE

So far so good

Loving my used corolla

Best BANG for the buck!

Great value

Fun little car

Good car

The Spartan of the economy cars.

Love my Corolla S! So Cute and Fuel Efficient!

Transmission Problems

Looking forward to a long relationship

2011 Corolla S (New)  Solid Car

Whats wrong with comfort

Perfect commuter car

worth and reliable car

Excellent

Conservative style, but still a beautiful car inside/out

Sensible Choice

Great Little Car

This Corolla S Really Hugs the Road...

Reliability

Glare on glass convering odometer & speedometer

Great daily driver!!!!

Great First Car for 17 yr old Driver!!!

New to the Corolla Line

It is what it is, and it's pretty GOOD!

impressions after 2k miles

Corolla Number Three and Counting!

Perfect car for daily routine and small trips

Good amigo car

Corolla does it again

Nicest Car in his class

Toyota Corolla is a little "workhorse"!

Phil's 2003 Corolla

is this the longest rotor on the road?

It seems like it's going to run forever.

Yes. It seems like will run forever

I love this car

Great Car - decided to keep driving it

Great car for the price!

Great car! Great value!

Outstanding value for low cost!

Corolla Club

Uber on!

You don't buy this car for fun/looks...

A chick magnet

Car better in summer than winter

Bar None best car for your money

Not Impressed

An okay car.

Rock Solid

Best car ever!

Best car i have had

Awesome

Best Corolla Yet...

Great car!

I have no reason to complain

Great Commuting Car

My first Toyota

2008 Toyota Corolla CE

Longevity

2008 Toyota Corolla

Bouncy Bouncy

ABS  ISSUE

The best economical option out there

2008 Corolla S- Black

Not what I expected

2008 Corolla S

Perfect commuter car

I will never buy another Toyota

Can't Complain

Disappointed

Used to be a VW fan

My Energizer Bunny - Toyota Corolla

So far I love it

What happened to comfort? 

10 years of ownership

Literal piece of crap

My Second Corolla also did not dissapoint

Best Car Ever!

Front seats extremely painful

Easily the best car I've ever owned

Love my 'Yota!!

Have loved every mile!

The average car

No Regrets

Safety issues

Corolla XRS

Sweet Ride

2005 Corolla good value

Best Car I have ever owned

Wow . . . Corolla!

Fantastic Car

This car saved my life!

Best car I ever had

Overall, good vehicle

Economic Commuter

Be very careful when buying a corolla

Boring, generic, poorly crafted  

Fantastic vehicle

Piratical A-to-B car

Reliable gem.

Amazingly Reliable But Bland

Amazing car!

Over 200k and still going

Most expensive car I have ever bought

I love my Corolla

Mostly excellent

Just Commute!

11 years and going strong

Best car our family has owned

First car I test drove, bought it, love it still

Excellent

Fantastic and Indestructable

This car is awesome!

9 years and still going

Burns Oil 

Does what it supposed to do

just the best

I believe this car helped save my life....

Amazing value in one little car

Perfect for a college student!

ECONOMICAL

Old 'Rolls.

the best

I've had it 18 years with no negatives

Awesome Truck

Incredible reliability

The best car I have ever had.

The ultimate truck

Trouble free Luxury!

EXCELLENCE IN MOTION

Riding in style

The BEST all-around performing SUV!!!

The Best Money Can Buy

Practical, Reliable Truck

6 More MPG and its PERFECT!

Solid All Around

great

Going Strong

Upgraded 'Cruiser

Unbelievable machine!!!! I LOVE IT.

Landcruiser lovers...

Riverrock Cruiser

L.C. The King of SUV land.

1 awesome SUV - the Original SUV

Great car

My First LandCruiser

Love My Landcruiser

Wow-I love this car.

Strict Outdoorsman

A Panzer in disguise

Smooth Urban Warrior

Bring back the 97 model

Cruiser

LOVE The Green TANK

Gotta Luv It

Best in its Class

Has a better vehicle ever been made?

King of the Road

On or Off Road -This is the One

Landcruiser Style

great no probs so far

Its no Range Rover thank goodness

THE BEST SUV EVER MADE

Too Much $ for a Toyota

I Hate this Car!

Land Cruiser Legend

Great SUV- Beware of 18 in. wheels

nothing like it

Wish my '99 Range Rover had been Cruiser

Best SUV

Its a good buy

Solid SUV

The Ultimate SUV

Return to LC

As good as it gets?

Haven't Driven It Much

Everything but sporty

Happy but disappointed

Libra

World Class

Like it But!!!

Land cruiser

Luxury without the obvious luxury name

More horsepower

The Best SUV In The World

Love my Land Cruiser

My 5th LandCruiser

cant beat it

Toyota Land Cruiser

Fun Run

The best SUV

Land Cruiser rating

Back to the LC I Go

Why change something that works!

great ride never had better

Outstanding Build

Fundamentally the Best

Smooth Ride, and Build Like a Tank

Super nice, a world standard

Great Vehicle

MY Landcruiser

Truly the best 4x4xFar

gald I got it

Glad to be Back with LC

Solid value

This is the one!

The King of Sport Utilities

Reliability plus

There is a reason the TLC is a ledgend

legendary suv

Perfection!

Land Tank

I have driven all the others. None match

My First L/C

What's not to love?

15 years and 215k miles and still like new!

No other compares

I love my Land Cruiser

Why wouldn't you!!!

2004 Land Cruiser

TRUE 4-WHEELER

Love my new 2008 LC

As good as it gets

2008 Land Cruiser

2008 Land Cruiser

The beast!

Best SUV  I ever had

Nice SUV

The Beast

No personality

Solid

The best of its class

A true "Flagship"

Impressive

Literally Rock Solid

Mixed Feelings

$64,000 Question

Depends on What You Need

Back to Basics

2007 Land Cruiser

Great for Duck Hunting

2nd LC and still the best!

Delivers as-advertised

Good as Usual

Over priced Behemoth

Best, not an SUV

Old Reliable

MONSTER

prolly the best car ive ever driven

GOOD BUT COULD BE BETTER FOR THE $$$$

best car on the road

The best SUV on the market

2004 Toyota Land Cruiser

GREAT  Vehicle to own

good

one of the best SUVS on the market 

WE love it!

Go anywhere in comfort

My wife wanted one....what a mistake.

My 2nd Land Cruiser

1997 Toyota Land Cruiser

My Landcruiser

Best car I have owned

1997 Collectors Edition FZJ80

If safety is your main concern...

best car i have ever had

BEST SUV OF 1997

OLD FAITHFUL

332,000 miles and still going STRONG.

Have you found perfection yet...?

great vehicle!!!

Quality, Performance and Value

The Best Suv

SUV of choice

great suv

Too much bass

2002 Land Cruiser

My Lexus!

my 4th Land Cruiser

Truck Mother

Who could you ask for anything more?

Cadillac of SUVs

The best!!!!!!!!!

The Best

Reliable, but ergonomic problems

The Rolex of SUVs 

Best SUV on the road ! 

My wife and I fight over the Keys 

Never has it failed!!

What A Truck!

Happy

Land Cruiser - Second to None

It's the best!

Love my 93- 170,000mi and won't quit!

pointless suv

I want another one

pinkfloyd

tr

My wife won

Favorite of all time

Very Good!

A Very Resectable SUV

Simply The Best

My wife was right

The Old Reliable

Iconic Vehicle

Great vehicle

16 years of stellar reliability and value.

Best of the Best

This car will never stop

The Best

Like No Other Super SUV

best SUV on the market

cruiser

I love mine

Great truck, disappointed with quality

Happy I bought it

best I've had

The Crusher

Finally Got One!!

Best SUV ever made

Very dissappinted

"Love this truck"

It's the little things...

10 YEARS Still Running Like A Champ

Quietest Vehicle I've ever Owned !!!

Life w/ Land Cruiser

vermont cruiser

Best on the road

There is no other. . .

Rock solid luxury vehicle

The best 4x4

1999 lc

Salt Lake City Review

Still love it 9 years later

Mom of 3

Good SUV; Slightly Disappointed

Very reliable vehicle

Incredible Vehicle

Love these things!

Takes a licking...

Feels like a Lexus

Great SUV

bullet proof

The Crusher

Excellent Cruiser

Sweet ride, but needs more luxury for $

1998 Toyota Land Cruiser

Perfect family vacation Cruiser

Great SUV

New Owner

Best SUV EVER Built

3rd LC Owned

Toyota Land cruiser

Awesome Vehicle

The best SUV on the planet

Best SUV year after year

Great choice for my family

1995 Toyota Landcruiser

I love this car!!!! But I need a change

Absolute Tank!

Wears like a suit... of silken armour.

The battleship

The Beast

the best

Sure-footed

Smooth Operator

Oldie but still truckin!

250,000

Toyota Landcruiser is the Best!

Best built SUV ever!

Toughest vehicle on the road

'94 Toyota Landcruiser

The Best SUV on the Road

The greatest SUV ever built!

I Love My Land Cruiser

Tough and Reliable

Extremely reliable...built to last!

146000 Miles and Counting

Amazing Truck

SOLID AS A ROCK

no maintenance needed

I Love This SUV

Best SUV availible

Solid as a rock

Love my LC!

Holding my breath

Gunkie's Favorite vehicle of ALL TIME.

Built Like Fort Knox

Don't wanna give it up

Land Cruiser worth its weight in gold

OLD LC in a new role

the best SUV ever

$15K for 100,000 trouble-free miles

The Last Real Land Cruiser

'93 Toyota Land Cruiser

One Owner and over 250K miles

Still Going after 300K miles

Great Old SUV

Awesome Ride!

Stove Bolt Solid

Brakes and Rotors

Awesome Crusher

1996 LC Review

1996 Landcruiser

1996 Land Cruiser Will Last

no SUV as dependable!!

1996 Toyota Land Cruiser

Canada to Costa Rica

Fantasy Vehicle

our lemon

Quality doesn't come cheap

Will Always drive a Land Cruiser

Lemon Central

things that matter work

The Best

love it !

The Beast

Gutless Wonder

great 4x4 but needs power

Has lasted 140k

Best in the buisness

Quality doesn't come cheap

Second to NONE

Toyota Land Tank

Best SUV for the Money

Solid SOB

A Great Drive

Land Crusher

Traded A Chevy Trailblazer For This

2010 HiHy Limited - As Promised

Really like the Highlander Hybrid

2010 Highlander Hybrid

Best SUV

Great vehicle

Fuel Economy is same as regular highland

27.5 mileage; love this vehicle!!

Great commuter with flexible utility

Better than expected

poor milage

Color dispute

Better Than I Hoped For

Problems with my used 2011 Highlander Hybrid

Love it

Yukon to Highlander

Awesome car

Navigation big disappointment

Better than expected!

Poor Navigation System

Up and coming

Love this Hybrid!

Crazy about it!

Great Car, Poor Hybrid Display and Audio Manual

A 2013 HH bought in 2016

Boring to drive & too expensive for what you get.

Whoa...what a car

Best Car I've Owned

Still early, but lovin' it!

Leaves you asking...why?

Can you have refined and fun in same ride ...YES !

Low  MPG For New Hybrid

An exceptional vehicle

Comfortable, but electronics are a letdown

Good downsize from suburban

Impeccable quality + MPG beyond expectation

My new hybrid

Not The Best Buy

So Far, so good

Everything I wanted.

Great Car

Our 2008 Toyota Highlander Hybrid Ltd

A great vehicle with a few quirks

2008 Highlander Hybrid

Good Horse

Perfect vehicle for us

Well-planned 

Finally, a 2008 HiHy!

2008 Highlander Hybrid a success

Went the extra mile

Great mileage for a SUV

'08 Highlander Hybrid Ltd. w/ Nav

My Dream Car from the moment I test drove

Careful of the Paint Job

08 HH

Disappointed

MPG

Love the car-highly recommend

A reliable and fuel efficient SUV

Shocked

toyota

Terrible value

Traded up using my 2009 Ford Escape Hybrid

I am looking forward to years of enjoying driving

Skiing, here we come!

My 2nd Highlander Hybrid

Overpriced & Misleading

We love this hybrid SUV!  Best purchase!

Wonderful vehicle for our family

Best SUV on the market, 5 years running.

Update

Great SUV - no longer perfect crossover

Wife says it drives like a dream

Smooth drive, but not quite the MPG's

Recommended

Still early, an initial grade

The Best SUV

rich man's Sequoia

The un-EXPECTED

The Best SUV Made

Land cruiser delivers

Go anywhere SUV!!!!

2011 Highlander Hybrid

Good but not like the Prius

Highlander Hybrid Excels

Better Gas Mileage Than Expected

If Mileage is the Major Driver

Top Notch Off Road

Land Crusier is the One

everything you didn't know you needed

What an awesome vehicle!

Built to Last - The Most Solid SUV on the Road

Very Impressed so far

3 Years later and strong as ever

LoveMyNewLandcruiser

Great Family Vehicle that can go anywhere!!

Love love love this truck. Best vehicle ever.

Know what you are buying.

Toughness, Reliability, and Quality engineering

What was Toyota thinking for interior?

Oh What a Feeling!

Big Improvements

You get what you pay for!

Great improvements in the LC

Solid SUV

Nice vehicle

You won't get valet parked out front...BUT!

I love it,Because no one has one

Nice vehicle but NOISY

First Land Cruiser - pleasantly surprised

The most refined TLC yet

A good commuter ride

Great Little Car

Prius

prius

free to drive

Commuter Car

I got what I expected - a GOOD thing

Prius at 600 miles per week 

Prius overrated

Very reliable hybrid to 248K miles

Very Cool Car!

I love it, very dependable

One great car.

Great Little Tardus

A great car for the enthusiast

Surprisingly good acceleration and MPG

Best car I have ever owned

High quality, excellent ride, exceeds my expectati

Good car, but make sure it's right for you

New Prius is better than ever

DEPENDABLE GREAT CAR, GREAT VALUE

My Baby

Very good to a point

Not bad but not all they say

Prius Safety concerns

We have two 2007 Touring models

Saving is Pure Fun with Prius

Used 2007 Prius

Just drove one across the Country

Very Impressive 

PRIUS -- THE ONLY HYBRID

A Great Vehicle

Good, not great 

Bad!

Proud owner of a Prius

Best hatchback on the market.

The most amazing car I have ever owned!

2011 Toyota Prius Two

Beating MPG Estimates

I love my Prius!

Great Vehicle...Even in Wisconsin!

Junk

Does everyone here only drive downhill?

Disappointed

Best car I ever owned.

owned a short time, but quite happy

Love 'em so much we own 2!

4 month unpdate 

Great Car

Love it for what it is - No regrets!

Great looks, Great Car

Eco Two rocks!

New Prius a BIG Winner!

Hey!  58 mpg ain't bad! 2016 Prius 3 Touring

My third Prius - 80mpg?

2012 Prius II - 3 year 51,000 mile review

More car than I expected

as advertised, and a bit better.

I Expected More from Toyota

L O V E this car!

Be sure this is what you want

Getting to know you..all about you

Great Car - comfortable cruiser - great MPG

Perfect car for everyone

Best car I've ever owned

Used V with Advanced Tech

HUGE Blind Spot

Why won't Toyota listen?

What a lemon!

Love my Prius

100,000 miles and going strong!

A Fine Car

A formidable achievement.

SO GLAD I GOT THIS CAR!

2010 Prius Touring

Great deal prius 5

Great gas saver

chick's ride . panty dropper

Thumping Prius in mornings

2015 Primus model 3

Great Bang for the Buck

Economical and Frugal at the Pump

Blizzard Pearl super cream puff

Love it my Prius five 4 door hatchback hybrid

Worst new car I have ever driven.

Love my prius!

We love it

what an awesome car

Best cars I've owned in eighty years!

Gas saving appliance....

16 months of ownership so far...

TRADED IN CMAX AFTER 10 MONTHS FOR THIS PRIUS

The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly - 2013 vs. 2010

Amazed!

The Sum Of Its Parts

Great car for the Environment

Second Prius we purchased!

A/C Buzzing

Remote starter ??????????????

Waked away from major Crash -- 55MPH Just brused

Gatorland Toyota sold me A great 2015 Prius

i can keep the road hot

Love my new Prius!

Not worth it.

My review

Another distinctive white Prius! Yay!

Just bought another one!!!!

excellent vehicle for my purpose

Love my new Prius

spacious, stylish, superb mpg's

Is it a "big little car" or a "little big car?"

How Can You Not Love This Car

Still love this car!

Time to buy my 3rd Prius

Worth every penny

My second Prius

How do I hate thee?  Let me count the ways...

Gas Mileage

Peaceful and Content

Comes Up Short On Fuel Economy

Great Car!

Civic Hybrid vs. Prius 

Worst Toyota I have owned

Loved it at first, now I absolutely hate this car.

A bulletproof toaster on wheels

2015 Prius Three the Good and the Bad

A Gas Saver

AMAZING little car!

Prathiksha's Prius

First Prius - Did Not Disappointed

Value for Money Finally

Prius 

A Great Mix of Gas and Electricity

Great Car

Nice, dependable car!

excellent car

Zero problems

What about hidden maintenance costs?

Amazed

Best car out there!!

Not comfortable....

Magnificent, but Dreadfully Boring

Better than expected Performance

good car with a few  minor problems

Love my Prius

2014 Prius "3" Model - Bought 5/25/2014

2014 prius 2

Very competent at everything

This Is Our Third Pruis. My Son Drives the first.

Blizzard Pearl Prius

Love our Prius

really satisifed with 2014 Pruis II Sea Green Pearl

The BEST overall vehicle on the road

Nice car, which it was less boring though.

2014 Prius for Pats fan

A happy buyer.

it's always been about the environment, not your wallet

Pleasantly surprised with the 2012 over the 2011

2 months of city driving

2012 Prius III

Great little car

Prius is it worth it?

Some major costs with replacement of headlights

Still going at 115,000 miles

Bought a used touring model

Great car

147,000 miles so far, zero problem

Worthwhile purchase!

All-round Excellent car

Honest Opinion

Still great 1.5 years later!

More than meets the eye!

162,000 and loving it!!!

Our 2nd Prius!

2008 Prius: 151k miles, no problems ever

Smooth

10K and rolling!  30K Annualized.

3 Options That You Will learn To Love...

best car ever

Awful road noise makes otherwise good car unbearable

does what it says it can do

Pleasantly Surprised...

My 1st Hybrid

New 2011 Prius owner

Great mpg and comfort for the long commutes

Love it.

A Little Gem

great car

Engineering Marvel

Impressed

Never liked it much selling next month

Never thought I'd get one...

Bought Prius due to high gas prices, very happy!

Solid performer

Skeptic but won over

Long life Prius

This has been an AMAZING CAR!!

MPG depends on how you drive, PERIOD!

Double Pleasure

2006 Prius

The best decision I ever made besides my marriage

Great Car!!!

179,476 miles and still going strong

Peppy little car

My Prius

Love my Penguin Prius in snow !

Still in love three years later

Waited for months, love this car!

the 2003 prius

Best Car I've had in 73 years

Domino's Prius Update!

A car with life time gas coupon 50% off

Domino's Prius

Fun car, looking forward to PHEV or EV

117000 miles on my Prius

I forgot how to open the gas cap

Good family car

I LOVE my Prius!!

great for normal people!

Good Car

2004 Toyota Prius

My Second Prius

Love my Prius

duhyme

You Won't Believe My Prius

The perfect ten.

A DRIVING PLEASURE

Great fuel saver

I Love My Prius

She rocks!

Whats wrong with my brakes?

260,000 miles, no rattles, no creaks, no maintenance

Love my Prius's

2007 Prius is nice vehicle

2007 Toyota Prius

Great Touring

Driving the future

Fuel-efficient, comfortable and fun!!

Wonderful car to drive and own

I LOVE MY PRIUS

Love the Prius

Better than Advertised

worth the wait

Happy Hybrid owner

2003 Toyota Prius Hybrid

Completey satisfied

Fun to save

Just the car I needed

The best car I've ever bought

 A little bit disappointed

Drive a Prius

Glad I bought mine when I did

Toyota Hybrid is a Winner

Love the Prius! still going.............

Great car... wave to the gas pumps

Prius after 100k Miles... STAY AWAY!

A great car

Problematic

I  Adore This Car

Mixed bag - I would still buy another one

Decent car

Not worth it

Disposable Vehicle

It just keeps going & going

THE FUTURE

2001 Prius

The lIttle Prius that Could

9/10

Best car I have owned.

At 94k, it's still like new

A Definite Upgrade!

Love these cars

Super Efficient and Great for Kids Too!

Use only the brake to slow down

5 Stars after 22,000 Miles in a 2016 Prius 4

Great car until the hybrid battery pack failed at 109k

Very reliable and economical!

What a great little car!

Issues with 05 prius you should know 

great car

Loved it enough to buy another Prius! 

Couldn't be happier

BEST CAR I EVER OWNED

Ouch, what a feeling!

Why I gave up my Lexus for this

Buying another Prius!

Mileage not holding up over time

Good up till now.

Smart Choice!

15 years and still going

6 Stars Anyone?

Prius 4 Touring- good and bad

Best Prius so far

Great, underappreciated car

Best Car I have EVER owned. Period!

2002 Prius with 193,000 miles

Beware old Hybrid Battery

02 PRIUS

Disappointing

The Lowest Polluting Car on the Plant

Another positive review

Lasted till all the batteries went

109,300 miles, 11 years - reliable, but not as long lasting as other Toyota cars

More than what it looks like

I love this car!

Excellent family-hauler with a few flaws

Great SUV, but hybrid may not be worth it

Great Fuel Ecenomy

WOW!...... Well, it's all gone to hell now

Hard to Find Hybrids

Glad we waited!

Good family appliance with a few shortcomings

If you prefer a comfortable ride

Who wants 60+mpg???

Too soon to tell

Great Car

Great Car

Steers like a boat & can't get comfortable!

Worst Car I Have Ever Driven

A good city commuter

great litter gas saver

I Love my Baby Prius 

Fun to drive our Prius C

Just OK

First Car

Good Gas Mileage

This car is at least a C+++

Embarrassed

Prius C Three with Navigation

Great Tiny Car

this is the one you have been waiting for

Great Vehicle

Most reliable car I ever owned

Toyota RAV4

I love my car!

Most reliable, best small car-like SUV

2 Years 47K miles-Utilitarian-Runs Great+Great MPG

A great little car!

Need 1 in your stable

Super economy gas and maintenance

Great economy car

Great condition

Falls short of great potential

Fell in Love with my first Prius!

update on the Prius

Now is the time

Excellent selection

Nice even with cheap gas

Fantastic economy and space - not much more

Prius v4

Great little car, great milage, nav junk

2nd Prius V purchase

Practicable, Comfortable Car ֠Terrible NAV

Prius V touch screen display

The good, bad and so so

Too big for me, but a good car

Prius plus

Love my car

my rav

It is a great little suv

Great little SUV so far....

My Rav

Very Reliable

Thanks Toyota for the fun reliable ride

Still Great After All These Years

Small, but Big and Peppy Rav4

Couldn't be Happier

Wife's Choice, Not a Man's Car

Is RAV4 really made by Toyota?

Love Love Love!

Jay Z

What a let down!

no problems, great for my wife

Nothing but rave for my Rav4

Is there any other?

5 speed shot after only 73,000 miles!

1999 Toyota RAV4

Cute little car

PERFECT CAR FOR A CHICK

2000 Toyota rav4 L AWD Best Vehicle I've Owned

Outstanding Vehicle

RAV 4 Ever?

love em

review

I LOVE IT!!!

7 1/2 years and still going

Till death do we part

dont make em like they used too

Wonderful car desperate for console re-design

silver slug

93,000 Miles Later and BETRAYED!

Great, fun car to drive!

2001 RAV4

The Rav4 that goes and goes

I love the way it looks outside...

203k miles and still going strong

Problem with headlight bulbs/burning out

used RAV4 after 6 years

Fun car

2001 RAV4  Bullet proof reliabilty

200,000 mi still going in 2013!

Greatest "car" I have ever owned!

Love My Rav4!

Good car but needs more power

After 2 1/2 years but only 14000 miles..

Great SUV!!!

Reliable little SUV

Toyota RAV4 L

This little car is a beast 

2000 RAV4 Needed Some Tweaking

Perfect for Tucson, AZ

My Rav4

Fun Car - Comfortable ride & good cargo

Great mini SUV

LOVE The RAV 4

Keeps on going after 320K miles

Love my little "beep beep"!

260,000 miles, veryy reliable

218,000, best car ever!

Durable and reliable

Love our RAV4!!

Just Bought

Rav4 303,000 miles

HAVING A HARD TIME PARTING WITH MY CAR

danger k frame rustout

My Purple Tortoise

monica's review

I love my RAV4

Excellent!!!!

Awesome

A True Statement of Toyota Reliability!

Great Vehicle

Old Faithful

Excellent across the board

1998 Rav4 L

Life is a Cabernet!

A winner as used 4x4 - safe, fun

Great City vehicle

Great Compact SUV

Great Car But...

1996 Toyota Rav4, 4x4, 4Dr

I LOVE my Toyota

Fab Car - Love it!

In a Relationship

Excellent 

185K and Still Going!

Fun and Feisty

I'm Lost Without My little Rav 4

96 RAV4 Review

'96 Auto of the year?!?~!!

Great Car

Little Ugly Monster

A GOOD Buy

Little Trooper

1996 RAV4 2 Door

1997 Toyota Rav4 (auto 2.0l 4dr)

The BUV

Excellent car

Long term relationship

My Tonka

great small suv 140,000 and going strong

Love My RAV4!

Very reliable AWD car

Best vehicle I've ever owned. . .

I Love This Car

I loved that car

Rav4

RAVARATI?

A great car to drive

1997 toyota rav4, 5spd. manual, 2WD

A great purchase

Loved leasing it enough to buy it but....

Great Little car,

Acceleration Issues

Quality better then professional reviewer

Great jalopy for people who drive a lot

Two people and a Dog Love Prius c

Join the Hybrid Team :) I love my little prius

LOVE my 1997 RAV4

LOVE MY RAV4!!!

It takes a licking and keeps on ticking

Excellent quality

Would Buy it Again

Far better then I thought.

A tale of two cars

MPG heavily dependent on velocity

To the Moon with my Prius C

new PRIUS C owner

Belts? What Belts?

Awesome Prius c :)

Excellent Commuter Vehicle

On my second one

Ignore the snobby critics

Safety

If you think Prius c is too small, think again!

Respect the Prius c !

Most economical hybrid, just don't expect ZOOM

Judge Me By My Size, Do You?

A Fun Little Car

It is what it is

Prius C earns a B+

love it

This ain't no Yaris!!!

All that I could want

Prius C One - The ultimate Econo-box

A Hybrid Accessible to Everyone

Long Time Toyota Owner, First-Time Hybrid Owner

2013 Prius C two - 100K miles & going...

My 5th Toyota and 2nd Prius

TSS-P is great

Blind spot issue is serious

Super Prius V four

Great Commuter Car

Happy Motoring with my "C"

Loved it so much we purchased another

A Comfortable and Nimble Gas Sipper

Bonnie Blue Great Car

My First Hybrid

Answer to MPG dream

I disagree with the haters...totally!

Better than expected

Worth the money and more......

Big fan!

My New Love

love my priusV!

Sound Value

Lots of room!

Pinto Lover Moves On

Best riding car I've ever owned

Ridiculous Pricing

angel baez

Enjoying our new Prius V

GOING HYBRID

Insane MPG

Now I get it...

Great little car

Prius c Two

Zero to Sixty in 43 MPG

Prius is worthy !!!!!

Outstanding Value!

Prius V package 4

LIKE THIS CAR ALOT

An Unexpected Surprise!

So far, mostly great

Great Bargain $$$

Moved UP to the FOUR - Great choice

Good little commuter car

Small car saves big

Great car but not for shallow people.

Compare

In the end we bought something else

Persona Prius C

INCREDIBLE VEHICLE

I am blown away!

ugly great car

Wow! Even better than reviewed :)

2011 vs 2017

car of tomorrow

See me

4th one is the charm!

Second one

Prius three

The Prius moves up  in styling and performance.

Recent purchase after VW diesel buyback

Gas mileage is REAL

Best of three.

Toyota's most important product and it shows

new transmission,etc. and a rental car for free!

ECM Died at 105M

Amazing car until the ecm went

Expensive price and not satisfied

Excellent value

Cockroach

Brooklyn Rav 4

Thanks for nothing Toyota!!!

sadness

Disappointed by Repairs

Beware I'm done with all Toyota products

practical choice

RAV4 U

Rav4=No worries

Compact SUV, fun to drive

Good car; not for family

Love it!

beef it up a bit

Best value (for what it is!)

My last Toyota

Fun to drive but under powered

RAV4

Yugo in Toyota Cloths

Now We Have Two RAVs

RAV4 a Great Little SUV

ALMOST PERFECT FOR THE FIRST 36000 MI

It's All Grown Up...

Toyota RAV4 from hell

This is a GREAT little car!

good except in heavy snow

poor service

DISAPPOINTED 

Dependable RAV4

Shame on Toyota

Good second vehicle

Fits the bill.

Blown up rav4 @ 90K - Not recommended

WATER PUMP Failures - Majorly Expensive

I love it!

Texan loves her RAV4!

Best Car I've Owned

Good Value For The Price

great SUV for the price

Great small SUV

So far, so good!

Happy owner

I would prefer to buy

I love it!

I'm home again!

Great Vehicle

I love it!

Good SUV

Perfect for a small family

This RAV is the Mac Daddy

Rushbaby

Love this SUV

Honeymoon was over after 19500 miles

Went back to Toyota

Spongy brakes

Toyota Rav 4 Limited Updated Review--B+

07 RAV4 Ltd V6 4wd is sweet

Fast Rav4

Great utility and fast!

Fun to drive, looks great in red

Class Action? ...Anyone?

15K Mile Update

Last Toyota

Worth how much you pay for it

Totally Uninjured Personally When Car Was Totaled

Great so far

Not worth the price/poor value/poor workmanship

Love my RAV 4

Excellent reliability, some cost cutting evident

Buyer Beware of Poor Paint

Excellent value for money and dependable

Excellent small SUV with Mid Size room

Meh - should have upgraded to the Limited.

Toyota Reliability

So far so good

Sporty and My Choice over Equinox

2015 RAV 4 HAPPY HAPPY

Another RAV4 For Me!

Mixed bag

We'll keep our superior 2011 Rav4 limited

Reliable, handsome vehicle

Spirited Ride

It does it all in FWD, AWD, 4WD & tight as a drum

No More Domestics

Finally love my RAV4

RAV4 BASE V6

More sporty than crossovers

Unplanned Purchase, but so Far, so Good

Purchased 7-3-11. Love RAV4!

Just purchased 

90 Day Review

A very good small SUV.

Rough Ride

Nice nimble car but it has problems

sorebutt

Just love it...

Good mountain car

Very happy after 9 months

Great SUV/CUV, with a few caveats

Riding in Sporty Barcelona Red

Happy With My Purchase

comparing to my 2011 RAV4

Excellent Vehicle 

Great Car

RAV 4 rough ride

1 Year, 15,000 mile review

Love this Crossover

Great car: New Style, Drives nice, Modern

Love the 2013 RAV4

Toyota meesed it up - Hood Vibrates - Watch it.

2013 RAV4 AWD Limited

Love So many things except...

Mechanically fantastic and quiet

Positives & Negatives

A+ for safety...

Great Vehicle

UPDATE

Great SUV!

2000 Mile Review

Best Compact SUV Lease Choise for Us

All the things you need in a vehicle for today

New to Toyota

Re-Designed Rav4

My 4th And Best RAV4 Yet!!!

Great compact option

A Great Crossover and Redesign

If you want the V-6, buy now!

Great Little SUV- Except Mileage 

RAV4 driver position

Very poor mileage

my toyota rav 4 sport 4x2 . 

Does Everything Without a Fuss

Zippy and reliable

So soon ?

Love everything! (Except the gas mileage ...)

From V6 to I4, no regret yet

Happy with my purchase!

Good Value Vehicle

Rav4 Rocks

Rav4 First

Pleased with pre-owned RAV4 (28K miles)

Love my 2nd RAV4 even more

Love the RAV4

A very functional SUV!

Great little pocket rocket

Toyota Got It Right with the RAV-4!

Mediocrity

Transmission, Brakes, power port location, and rear door

Great little SUV

Great All Around SUV, Best In its Class IMO

2012 Toyota RAV4 Limited

4x4 V6 Base

The uncomfortable seats have ruined the RAV4 for me :-(

GREAT SUV!

love my Rav4!

Love this car!

Nice Little SUV

Bumpy Ride - Sports Model

Starting Issue

Time to sell it.

The v6 is super fast!

I should have had the V6

RAV4 SPORT, awesome value, just a glitch

Great so far!

Not a Sienna

Great SUV

A great choice!!

Great Value Vehicle-Terrible Bluetooth Instructions!

2010 Toyota RAV-4 AWD

Everything I need

awesome car, glad I got v6 and 4x4

Happiest I've ever been with a car!

Great except for bluetooth...

Almost a great car

Rav4

Great mid size SUV

Nice Ride

Not worth it

3 rd year and running great

2014 Toyota Rav4 XLE AWD

Meh

My Favorite Rid

Really Suprised !

Fun, reliable, good fit for tall people

2008 Rav4 - rough ride

Like having a pickup

Road hugging AWD performance

A bunch of 4's

2014 RAV 4-XLE-FWD Gas Milage Terrible!

a real lemon

Very Bad Rear Suspention

Worst Vehicle I've Ever Owned

Not so reliable as they say

Toyota is Slipping

Possibly Perfect

Engine replaced at 56K.  No more Toyota for me.

New Rav4

oil burning Rav 4

Great Buy

More than I expected

Beats the others

Toyota's Legendary Solidity, but Some Issues

A great and fun vehicle to drive - city or hwy

Meet my expectation in every way

Drivers seat lumbar support?

Very Let down!

Tesla is changing everything.

Best SUV ever

Wow to the tenth power!

BEST SUV / Crossover vehicle EVER!

Electric SUV

Wait until quality improves

What do you get from Tesla when you spend $113,000

The model x is years ahead of the competition

Great vehicle for anywhere that isn't hot

Not Ready for Prime Time

Amazing EV, but Quality & Longevity Are Questioned

Reviews seem fake. See for yourself.

Went back to an X5

not sure if worth the money

Too many problems and poor service

Traded Honda CR-V for RAV 4

T-SB-0094-11 Engine Oil Consumption Engine Problems Engine Noise

It will get you to where you need to go but not much else

Well worth it - I highly recommend

Toyota hit a homerun with the RAV4

Excessive Oil Consumption

2007 Toyota RAV4 I-4 4WD

History of problems

Not perfect, but close enough

Great SUV, needs better tow hitch

120K miles and still purring like a kitten

VERY GOOD VALUE

Kiss my black RAV bye!!

2006 Toyota RAV 4

Toyota's compact SUV

Test Driving a Model X P90D

You love it and hate it

Tesla is a BIG FAT Lie, quality and workmanship

I test drove one and never looked back

Here at last-Model X

Great, but has had its share of problems

Safest Car I've Ever Seen

Blown engine before 90,000 miles

Money Pit

A New Redesign is Not Always Better

Spring Break trip to Colorado from North Texas

Should have purchased a Rav4 a long time ago.

Quality over Quantity!

this is a fine car

New RAV-4 - Good Investment

2016 Rav4 XLE AWD

Good long trip SUV

Chose Rav4 XLE over 8 others tested

Never again

Very Satisfied

Toyota RAV4 Vastly Improved

My New RAV4

Excellent all around

ITS A BUDGET SUV, DRIVE THE COMPETION FIRST

2017 RAV4 Light Years Ahead of Older Model

RAV4 Platinum is fun, well-equip vehicle

Sweet replacement

Not a home run, but

seats hurt our backs!!

Back door sealant, gear location, windshield fl

loving my new car

I own an XLE AWD hybrid, just rented this one

AWD Rav4 XLE - An awesome vehicle!

New RAV4

Beats Honda Crv

My Third One!

Greatly Recommend this vehicle

Rav vs CRV.

RAV4 3 years and running.....

overdone and underdone

My 2017 Rav4 SE AWD review

Edmunds Promise

Toyota did it again with few improvements required

Great looking outside, Dash problem

Quality is Toyotas Job One

Toyota will pay for transmission repairs

An excellent vehicle

380,000 and Still Going !!!!!

ECM /Transmission Problem

Transmission Problems...don't buy!

Love that RAV!

We RAV Toyota

Thought more of a Toyota

I love my new rav4

fun to drive

Awesome Ride

A Great, Reliable Vehicle

My Dream Car

175,200k miles and still going strong....

rav4 at 85,000 miles

Wish I had bought one sooner.

2 yr. update on my 05 RAV4

Classy All Around Vehicle

Best Car

One of the Best Cars I've Ever Owned

Pretty disappointed

Excellent choice

Great little SUV with a lot of room.

A Subaru Clone?

A brand new RAV4, something to Rave about.

Bestest Little SUV Ever

212000 and goin strong

Replace water pump!

Tough as nails, 150,000 and a front impact

BEST SUV EVER MADE

greatest value for the money

Gen 2 Rav nicer than Gen 1 but -Quality

Excellent vehicle

trusty rav

Love my rav4!!!

Happyowner

Buy a RAV4

GetaRav

TASHAS RAV4 

Love this car! 

Solid Vehicle, Some Issues at 78K

My favorite car ever

Great car

Comfort, Reliable, Safe and low maint

Raves about RAV

An SUV that rides and acts like a car!

Fun Reliability

Very Happy With My Rav4

No serious issues but............

Rav4 L

2001 RAV4 AWD Automatic

Buyer Beware

Love This Car

I love my Rav4!

RAV 4

Tesla model S flawed design

Remarkable Car

Fascinating, sickeningly fast, ultra-quiet, & no gas!

60 KWH Spring Suspension

Tangle with a Tesla S ?

Subaru's ROCK!

New opinion of foreign cars!

Never Quits

Runs every day

Buy and Hold

The Birthright, my Legacy

My thoughts

subie

Five Year Test

Incredible car

The People's Car for snow country 

My thoughts

You Just Can't Kill This Thing!

The best little car I've owned yet.

great utility and low profile

132,000k miles

loved that car

Couldn't have asked for anything better

will buy another

Great Car, Wish It Would Run Forever

I can't believe it's not butter!

OUTSTANDING VALUE

LS Wagon

Subaru

My Subaru

'94 Subaru Legacy L

I miss my Legacy!

Old Reliable

Who'd have thought a wagon could be cool

Mr. Reliable

Sedan

My Turbo 

My 94 Legacy keeps going and going and..

Captured by Reliability

Never Let Me Down!

great car!!!

WoW

You gotta have one!

LOVED my 95 L Wagon!

dependable transportation

Good Little Car

No Worries...

Good for all seasons

Winter beater that lasts

Oldie but goodie

Reliable, But Not Very Sharp

472000 and its still tuggin along

Great Car, Affordable Maintenance

Great car for all times.

100 percent reliable

The Best Car Ever!

Solid, Dependable, Great in Snow

Exceeded My Expectations

It really can go anywhere!

Keeps on Goin...

Subaru Country

Best Car EVER!

1995 Subaru Legacy L sedan

I loved this car!

Wallflower

Expensive fixes!

Best Damn Automobile I've Ever Owned.

Super reliable

The Short and Tall of Driving a Subaru Outback

Love my Subaru!

snow job

Is it time to give up?

It's love, all right!

Best Sport Utility Ever!

just amazing

2001 OutBack

Head gaskets

Costly  to maintain

Subie Has Outdone Herself!

Good first car for teenager

Never GOT STUCK

Go-anywhere tank

Excellent Wagon

I've loved this car from the word GO!

LOVE MY CAR

Hi Miler Bargan Mover

2001 Outback

Leaking oil but hasnt let me down (yet!)

Dale's Review

clutch problems

Confidence to drive anywhere!

Practical but Fun

good but noisy

Fun to drive; Worth the extra money!

Outback LTD Wagon

Not all Subarus are built the same

Bad Clutch and blown head gasket

Solid ride

Subaru Wins

204,000 miles and going strong!

Gets the job done

Head gasket on 4cyl.

Don't buy this car

Head Gasket and Sway Bar - Ouch!

Perfect Arizona car!

AWD Kicks!

GET A CLUE BUY A SUBARU!

Never Another Subaru

ENGINE PROBLEMS?????

So far so good

Love/hate

Highly Recommend

Outback wagon automatic trans, good and bad

195,000 miles

Reliability up the wazoo

A good college car

Old Reliable

278,000 miles - remarkable car

The Anytime, Anywhere Most Reliable Car!

Happy Subaru Buyer

Pleased Subaru Owner

Lasts forever

1990 Legacy L 4-WD

Awesome

SUPER SUBURU

Made me a believer

good car

My Spectacular Legacy

Dependable

I've LOVED this car!

Very good car

My Used Suberu

Tough overall, some weak points

amazing

Overall amazing car!

Subaru ALWD

Built to last.

Excellent Car!

Pretty Dependable Car

Proud of the Subaru I once had.

Reliability

This car is a dog

Most Reliable Car Ever

Best CAR have ever owned!

Loaded 85D

Her new Tesla s

Best cr ever

Zapped and Glad

So far so good.....

Best vehicle I've owned

Love/Hate relationship with a 3 months old car

I bought P85D for speed but love the Eco aspect

GO FULLY ELECTRIC!!!

Best are have ever had! (And I've had everything.)

Big Problems; small fix

First 18000 miles with a P90D Ludicrous

Best car ever

Great 2nd hand car

Sport Sedan (Turbo)

Bullet Proof

Great Vehicle

1991 Subie Wagon

91 legacy wagon

A tank

Unshakable. Amazing Reliability

my subaru legacy 

Loved my Suby

American Ingenuity Electrified

"Free" Green on green lightning

Overpriced for what you get

"First Ride" Impressions when I visited Tesla's Factory

One of the best cars... period.

World's greatest used car

unbreakable japanese car

Unbelievable

Fast, reliable,smooth w/ great handling

Excellent performance, utility and efficiency

Great car

The best!  Don't want to ever drive anything else!

Ouch... Be careful here.

Awesome car for awesome people!

No Issues

Best car I've ever owned.

Best Car I Have Owned

Base model: same rocket, smaller boosters

this is something you need to consider before you buy 

Tesla is to cars what Apple is to phones.

Great drivetrai + beta software

Best car I've ever owned, could never go back

A game changer!

Great Car - Wish I could afford a second!

The Funnest Machine of My Long Life

Best car I ever drove!

BEST CAR EVER

2nd time is the best . Good bye Ferrari

improvement needed

A.M.A.Z.I.N.G!

Unavailable Repair Parts Tarnishes Tesla Image

We own 2 of the orginal Tesla Model S

Revolutionary

Misled by videos

Better than my Mercedes S-Class, BMW 7 series, etc

NO LOOKING BACK

Overpriced gadget

Very Cool but not Cushy

First time Subaru Owner - HYBRID NOT WORTH $$$

Not a Hemi but good enough

Love MY Crosstrek

I want my MTV (see entertainment system review)

Just the lacks, man

Great small SUV

A delightful small

My Favorite Car

Owner of many cars.

Great small CUV after a year

Lots of Room & Comfort

After 1 year

...and 3 make's us a 'subie family'

I said I would NEVER drive a Subaru

Great car, Cheap Paint!

Best all round car !!

Still rolling thru Snow and Ice!

Over rated junk

Vehicle stops with no warning

subaru success

4cyl L AWD 4dr hatchback atuomatic trans-bad head gaskets

Former Forester owner

2.5 Curse

Best car for a decade

What a Joy

VERY RELIABLE CAR OVER THE YEARS

positive on balance

Lot's of little problems.

Not what I expected from Subaru

Don't miss the Jeeps at all

Great Vehicle

Would never buy another Subaru!

Great handling

Very good car!

Only Forester for me

The Subaru That Keeps Going

The best part is it was Free :D

A Disappointment

1998 Subaru Forester

This car is a piece of trash!

Two Thumbs Down/2001 Forester S

Rear Wheel Bearings and Build Quality

Will never again buy a Subaru

So far, so good.

Problems galore

8 Yr Review- My lemon is literally falling apart :( 

Fast, Tough, and Versatile

Fun Subaru

Practical with a twist

SPORTS and Utility

Many problems, sold mine

best car I ever bought

Solid SUV

Great Car!!

2000 Subaru Forester S

Outstanding!!!!!!!!!!!!

A Happy Camper, Overall

First Suby I have ever owned and just love my car!

piston slapping Subarus

Can't beat the value

Most reliable car I've ever owned!!!

50,000 km and a huge bill

03 Forester 2.5X

Just not a great car

superroo

Tojo's Revenge

WE LOVE SUE!!!

Made me a believer!

Falling apart

I like

Greatest Purchase I Have Made.

Totally reliable, but a bit spartan.

My favorite car

Wanted to love it; absolutely hate it

Fair

not as good as expected

Bad Quality buyer beware

I'll never buy another Subaru!

I like it, but... 

Don't buy a Subaru

Excellent value

Forester SXT after 600 miles

My first SUV

Truck to SUV

Great little SUV, most everything in one

Best Looking SUV

Great Subaru...if you can still get one!

Still a great little car

Quality problems

Used 2008 Forester

Great Subaru

The Best Car I've ever had !!!!! Period 

2nd Subaru Forester for Me

A good solid B+

On my radar since '98

Want to love this car, but...

Susie Subaru

Best SUV on the Market Today!

Ok but won't buy another Subaru

Ruby the Subaru

Overall a fun and capable Subaru

Solid car--not splashy

major engine repairs needed at only 45,000 miles

Transmission cooked at 132K

Junk

My Subaru Story

The Bru' is true

It's always something new......

The car I really wanted to love

It is what it is.

Nice, but I like my 2005 better

Cant find a downside to this vehicle

Excellent Small SUV

2 year update

Great for tall drivers

Forester Turbo

Solid, Safe & Fun to drive

Why the XT is on 1 of 5 best Trucks 2004

Speak softly, carry a big stick!

Near to perfect design

Early Maintenance

Premature wheel bearing failure

Don't Buy a Forester

right on the mark

Pass on Subaru not worth trouble

Fantastic Car!  Buy it if you can!

175,000 miles few problems

Best car I've ever owned

Seconds Thoughts

Wonderful Go Anywhere Vehicle

2004 Subaru Forester "Burt"

Luv my Scoobie!

Expensive parts, noisy on highway, worst car I ever had.

Excellent Car!

Solid Car

2.5X 

A niche car, but fits perfectly in it.

Excellent winter vehicle, though slightly underpowered

Plain and Simple Truth

Just what I was looking for...

Disappointing Experience

Just never fell in love

The Maine state car!

Fun to Drive

Fantastic car, but needs rear legroom

Subaruy

Love Everything but the Mileage

The Forester  Makes It's Way

ABS light watch out

Dress for work, minus the heels!

Practical and reliable

another solid car

Good Choice

great little suv

One week

Nickle and Dime

First 20,000 fine so far

Best no compromise automobile

Safe, well handling vehicle

Great SUV for average family

Nice Car

Perforated Rust on a 2+ year old Subi

No more Subaru's for us

Not quite the dream car I thought

Buy in 2008

Great car but lots of repairs Starting at 120k.

Watch those big ticket repairs.

Great Practical Vehicle

Possibly the most functional car....not the best looking

Super Subaru

Perfect Car/SUV

100K meltdown

My favorite car.

Love it!

Rational SUV

2007 Forester XT Sport, my 1st and last Subaru

love it

New Subaru

I like my Forester

shy rocket

Great Value for the Money

Subaru reliability & longevity marketing is a joke

After 4 Years of ownership, I still get excited to drive it.

Low-Impact Driving Machine

2007 Forester Subaru--- LL Bean 

Love this Car!

Bulletproof

Best Vehicle I ever had

First and Last Subaru

Great all-round vehicle

So far, so good

my little suv

Go Everywhere and anywhere car

2000 Forester what a drama

Few problems...So far

Subaru? Never before, never again

Best small SUV out there

Perfect for Snowy Weather

176 plus, and still no sign of stopping

I'm a walking Subaru advertisement

A few problems, but a great little daily driver

Going for 300K!

Bought used in 2011 - my 6th Subaru

Still Going Strong

Shoulda bought a Honda

repeated oxygen sensor issues

A robust little wagon

This car is a continuous Headache

After seven years of ownership

My 2000 S

Overall Good car with recent issues

Love this car

Perfect Winter car

Love it!

Another love-hate relationship

New Subaru Owner

It just keeps going!

Great small SUV

Noisy like a Jeep Wrangler

Too much of a compromise.

2005 Subaru Forester 2.5 XS

GREAT VEHICLE

Mom-mobile (that Dad likes, too!)

Great for the money

Lots of car for the money

Love this car, but...

2005 Subaru Forester

Simply The Best Small SUV

Great first car!

160k miles and still going strong

I am in love with my Forester!

Keeps on chugging

Safe, Excellent Reliability Car

Four-Year Update

I love my Subaru

First and last Subaru although saved my life

Love this car!

I love my Forester and all of the other Subaru's I've owned. 

Love this car! Waiting for a hybrid!

Missing my Subaru

LOVE my Subaru!!

High Miles - a real workhorse

Ugly or not, she's a trooper!

Subaru For Life

Darn wheel bearings

Excellent '99 Forester Keeps on Humming

Is the engine problem fixed?

I Miss My Forester

Good as a first, but may not last

2nd Subaru

Love my scooby!

Money's Worth and Then Some

LOVE my Forester!

Excellent car

240K  Great car

Safe + Comfort = Crosstrek

My New Subaru

Crosstrex

Edmunds review is wildly overly critical

Some Great Things and Some Room for Improvement

Not too big, not to small, just right

GREAT CAR WITH POOR PHONE CONNECTION

Love this car

Love my 2017 Subaru Crosstrek!!!

Happy

my thoughts

Great car

buy it

GeezerMobile!

New Forester after 500 miles

'17 XT Touring's a refined '14 XT Touring

DECIDED ON A FORESTER

2500mi on my 2017 Touring

AMAZING CAR & GREAT BANG FOR BUCK!

try it, you'll want to buy it

Upgraded my ride from Honda to Subaru

Sorry I bought this 2017 Subaru Forester

'17 XT Touring attended finishing school

General observations

Great Car Except Emissions Control Problems

Great car, but sold it after one year

Not all Subarus are reliable

Great package that needs just a bit more

Oil Consumption Issue

Great Replacement and my first Subaru

Starting Issues

Great value, decent mileage

subaru stinks

the rattlemobile

Second Forester

Horrible transmission

Melange

Love Subarus

It's OK

Best car ever!

oil consumption resolved

2012 subura forester

Do not buy this car

Heater problems

Great all round family SUV

Very nice car

2015 Forester 2.5i Premium

Amazed by the technology!

New Subarau believer

Oil sucker

Best of the small crossovers I've tried

Burning Oil at 7,000 miles

OIl problem fixed

Pooping Out On Me

Great Car

Subaru

Best Car I Ever Bought

I'd Recommend It to Anyone!

1996 Outback 4dr Impreza wagon

great carrrrrr!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1

best car i had from GENA

reliable ride

ExcellentPrime

Love My Commuter

Not very good.

My Tricked out Scooby

Not very good.

Subaru Impreza built to last

Great Car

My Impreza :)

Great ride!

My Subaru

Best car for me

Outstanding

115,000

A 100K Shay

What a great little car!

A fun-to-drive wagon

My Little Green Sub

The super 165 horse Subaru

my outback sport

feel confident.

hunu

manual seeking

1998 Subaru Impreza 2.5RS

Fun to drive!

OB Sport Rocks! (But now I want a Baja)

Winter wonderful

My Impreza

Great car!

My ScoobyRoo

More power Scottie

First Car, First Love

Oil Leak

"Fun in the Snow"

Wheel Bearings

As reliable as death and taxes

Dejvu All Over Again

Hot RS

Great car

I really wish this had been a better car

Very Reliable Subaru

 My '97 Outback Sport

Loved my Suby

My First

15 years and counting

Bummed!

Michigan review

Impreza

My subaru is dead :(

Grocery getter??   NOT!!!!

Good pick for the time

Subaru Outback Sport

MY00 2.5RS GC6 Review

Awesome Car

clutchsqueak

only problems

RIP at 261,000 miles

Reliable Car

Fun to drive but not very reliable

Underpowered but reliable - easy drive

gotta love it

110,000 Miles and no problems

Fun, Reliable Ride

Best car I ever owned!!

wOw

it all starts to fall apart at once

Run Away - Not Recommended

fun

Good Car but could be better

So many problems

Dad's Old Winter Car

'99 Outback Sport

Loud Ride!

Built to last 1999 Subaru Impreza L 2.2

Lovely Car

Great car for the price

Numbers don't always tell the story

Perfect so far

1996 Subaru Impreza LX 4 door sedan

nice

Most reliable car I've owned

Great Little Compact Sports Car

Reliable and practical

Great Car!

The Beauty of AWD

Subaru - '99 Impreza

10 yeas of excellent service

Well, it IS Reliable!

I d Do It  Again

My Impreza Outback

Great College Car!

One Tough Set Of Wheels

Awesome

Great Car

Love It

My Little Tank

Love my suburu

conundrum

basic transportation

Good, reliable car

Great second hand car

93 Subaru Impreza

Love my Subaru!

Excellent, reliable car

Takes a licking, keeps on ticking

Awesome first car

Happy Owner

Too bad ALL vehicles wern't this good

Imprezas have potential.

Sonnie (1993 Subaru Impreza) DLG (daddys little girl)

Good Bang for the Buck

1995 Subaru Imprezza

Pass on this used vehicle

great car

Great Little Car!

Best Grocery Grabber On the Market

Good little pizza car

Balance through the corners

Great car

Bulletproof

Mora that what I expected

The Car that won't die

The best used car I've ever owned

notimprezzed

95 impreza l awd 5 spd

Subaru is the way to go.

Great Car

Super Car

subie wagon-love ours

Basically a good car with a few faults

Great Vehicle

Oil consumption nightmare

Excellent!

I have to smile every time I drive this car

UPDATE 60,000 Mile Review ---> Now at 78,000 miles

First Subaru

2.0XT Touring is a high quality jem

Do not buy this vehicle

The Excellent 2014 Forester 2.0 XT Touring

Eats oil.

2014 Subaru Forester - Failed Transmission

3 months / 5000 miles - Great Car!

A Few Issues, But Overall Content

Love my Subaru!

Happy after 2 weeks

Great little car

Constantly having to check engine oil

First subaru

'14 XT possibly the best Forester to date.

Well Just Turn Me Over and Look at my Blue Teeth

Our second XT , just as good as the first! 

Exactly what I need

My 4th Subaru- Much Improved

Happy with my 2015 XT

2 year/23k update.

Best New Car Purchase Decision I've Ever Made

5000 mile update

2015 Subaru Forester Overview

Fun to drive SUV

Air conditioning dilemma

GReat Value - Best AWD design

RAV4 would've been a HUGE mistake! 

Second Forester is a Charm

Does the job!

Pay MORE

Subaru Forester 2013: Meh...

Basic and awesome.

2013 Forester - Practical and Reliable....

short people beware

Nice Car - Seats are extremely uncomfortable - Cause Back Pain!

At last

My 2013 Subaru Forester

You get what you pay for 

Amazing on every level, just not mpg!

Oil Burner Fixed by Subaru

Great little Subie

Trashy Tranny

Foresters belong in the forest!

Great Value

A costly mistake

7th Subaru, 5th Forester

Short people need NOT beware..

Subaru Forester Oil Consumption

Great little car

Good car for slippery road but rattles

An honest Car!

Subaru Symetrical AWD is Superior to FWD-AWD From Competitors 

Bang for the buck 

My first and last Subaru! Multiple issues..

Nice overall package

Best SUV for the buck!

my 2003 Forester was better in some respects

My trusty, dependable steed

Good Value for AWD

Love it, fun to drive, but some problems

WARNING!!! Make sure to check your Oil!!! 

Excessive oil consumption, computer fail, cold start noise

Very Good Overall Package

Excessive Oil Consumption destroys all value

First Subaru

Exactly what I'm looking for

This thing is GARBAGE!!!

I hate this car.

Not my dream car

2010 Forester

Squeak/ Rattles Nightmare customer service

Not returning to Subaru

1 year later

2010 forester is impressive!

Known Recurring Problem - Blown Head Gasket???

Exhaust rattle and ping noises

2010 Subaru Forester XT (Turbo) Limited Edition

Rattles like a Soviet-made piece of junk

65K Miles, Leaking Head Gaskets

Kids are gone, and wife wanted out of her minivan.

I'm a convert!

Too much glass not enough tint or AC

The perfect car for all-around competence

2016 Subaru Forester Limited 2.5

Really enjoy driving it

Five Star Car!

Exciting time in the Premium

Great Value in CUVs

Best in class

Absolute best bang for your buck

Best Subi Ever!

Shoulda checked

Overall impressed

Sadly disappointing: CVT and rattling dash

After a 4,000 mile road trip.

Last of the Manual Transmission AWD Crossovers

Love my new Subaru Forester 2.0XT Touring model!

Scooby DO

Take a deep breath!

First Subaru

Great SUV for the money.

2017 XT Touring w Eyesight - Fun to drive

No SUV is perfect -- this one is closest

Back to Subaru))) Very happy.

Brand New 2017 Forester

First Forester

My First Subaru!

Loving the 2017 improvements!

Not your father's Forester

AWD 4-dr Sport Wagon

Cheap Fun

good way to build a car

Good deal, Great car.

Go Rally

Slightly quirky, but a blast to drive

FUN TO DRIVE - RELIABLE - UGLY DUCKLING

Subaru

Amazing handling

Legacy Wagon a very useful car

Best bang for the buck

Fun and reliable

Rally Car DuJour!

The most fun I've ever had driving!

bang for the buck!!!

suits MY style of driving

I love this car

The not- so-great car

My Review

First of many

Jack of all trades

After almost 2 yrs

WRX- Not a performance Bargain

Excellent car

WRX four years on

Still Fun, After All These Miles

Good Car with a few flaws

Great Performance, Not a Commuter Car

Most Fun for the Money

Not quite a 944 Turbo, but that's alright with me

YOU WANT THIS CAR!

Most Fun Compact Car with AWD!

Nice Subby

The poor man's supercar

Fun Car

Price vs Contents

My first New Car

subaru 2016

Windy Review

Great car!

Impressive Impreza

STILL Subarutiful!

AWD in a fun package

Love the acceleration!

Impressed with the Impreza

Downsizing.

Disappointing Sti

The perfect car for hand controls

5,000 Mile Update

STI Special Edition

Reliable economy car

Loving this little car!

Cool Car for Little Cash

1st Subaru owned of many to come

My 2011 SSM STI

Watch out for neck pain!

Total Failure of a Car

Do I really need a car this fast?

Still lovin' this rocket!

Sweet ride!

Disappointed.

Best Value for the buck

CAN'T WAIT FOR LEASE TO EXPIRE!!! NEVER AGAIN!!!

really like our Subaru Sport

Best car ever

You get what you pay for.

My 1st Subaru

Impreza Hatchback Imprezzive

First Car Buyers DREAM!

Love my Impreza Sport Limited!

Overall good car but issues with tires, oil light

Great AWD, some annoying weaknesses

The More I Drive It the More I Like It

worth the wait

Beware of 2012 Impreza 2.0i (Base) CVT

Simply Amazing

Happy Owner

I Love My Subie!--Greeley, CO 

Incredible Car!

I love this Impreza

Not worth the trouble

Denver Co, Just wanted a reliable, cheap, AWD

My first Subaru

little problems

Great car so far *EDIT*

Excellent MPG for AWD, disappointing electronics

Losing Oil

Best Buy Overall

MPG

Impreza Premium (4dr)

Subaru Impreza

2015 Subaru Impreza Sedan

It's not German. Get over it.

My first Subaru and I love it!

great car

Great car for traveling, outdoorsy people

Best All Wheel Drive compact car

Swiss army knive car.

It's PERFECT for its intended Purpose. 11,000 in 3.5 Months

Back to a small car again and loving it

A must have

Great Car

Best Car Under 40k

Fun and Practical

Fun Car

Really love this Subaru!

RC Review

Wow.  Just wow.

Sweet

This car is IT

Used Subaru

The first and last car Ill ever need!

It's not perfect, but I love it

Impreza Sport Limited

Subaru for you!

2 1/2 Years and I'm Still In Love

The Ultimate Car For Mountain Residents

A great performer

Impreza 2.5i M5 Wagon

Great car but Pain in the back

Best car for anyone!

Not what they used to be

Oil Burner

Great New England Car for the Money

Go anywhere anytime all the time and have fun looking good doing it

An excellent all-round small car

Great gas saver for North Country 

Not bad at all for a 19,000 vehicle!!

Subie's Doo. 2014

A lot of car for the price!

Great Value

Love My Subarus!!!

Safe vehicle for your family and confident in less then desirable weather!

Good car overall-but flaws

It's all about the mileage

SNOW MACHINE!

Pretty sure I'll never drive another brand again.

Good little machine

Mileage is above advertised! I love it.

Recent Purchase

My  First Subaru and I am Impressed

Great car, worst Bluetooth possible

Went from Infiniti M35 to Impreza and very happy!

Lots of noise

This car will surprize you

Mostly a Great Car

2017 Impreza is great buy

Happy I bought the 2017 Impreza Limited hatchback

1st Subaru and it's great!

Dealer great, Subaru a good company to deal with

Imprezive Impreza!

Huge and Horrible upgrade in Technology

Most problematic New Car I have ever purchased!

I'm reasonably "Impressed" with my Impreza

Fun, solid car

Love it. Highly recommended

A guzzler?

Hot looking ride

I like and use CDs

New Year, new design

I'm not that Imprezed...

Excellent value, wish there were more luxury and safety options

Big Disappointment

Oil Consumption

Very Disappointed

Oil consumption problem

One of the bettter vehicles, but not perfect

Scoobie II

Best Subaru Yet!

Big Improvement

Exactly what I was looking for

Love my new Subie!!!

Plagued with issues, I nicknamed our car Apollo 13

Lots of good things, but major flaws too

Already traded it!

Is it a sti no it's a wrx

Great AWD and thats it

Great overall value!

Wow-e-wow-wow!

Great car for the money

Great car - 2 gripes

terrible car

Awesome rex

STI-ME!

Not as good as 2006?

Love

This is Definitely the Low End Product

2010 2.5i Subaru Sedan

Second and LAST Subaru

2010 2.5 I Manual

Oil burner - burnt engine/valves. Awful

My experience with my 2012 Subaru Impreza Sport

Oil Burner, Sits Too Low

Oil Burner, MPG not as advertised

Traded 2011 Outback Sport (Lemon Law) for 2012 Sport Premium

Updated: Four Year Ownership Review

STI

A big step backwards for Subaru.

Saved my life

2011 WRX

Subaru Impreza WRX review

Total Waste of Money

WRX Finally!!

So far so good

Great so far

Awesome performance

I love my impreza

Love this car!

Excellent Car!

Not quite what I expected

Satisfied Subaru Owner

Mini Lexus 300

One Year Old Now

rod knocking and spun a ring, at 34k miles

I'm a Subie!

reliable and good-looking

Subaru'd in Ohio

AWD Automatic With Great Gas Mileage, What?

Okay small hatchback, too little road clearance

20,000 miles in

Poor stock tires for wet/snow. Paint chips fast

2.5 GT Impreza/ Outstanding

Great vehicle but very poor longevity

1,000 of people with engine failure

2009 Subaru Impreza - Poor in Heavy Snow

purchase mistake

Lots of potential

My First Subaru

Best Decision I ever made!

HAD TO TRADE

Safety First

The ugliest of the ugly duckling

Everything I Expected

Impreza WRX rocks!

Impreza1

OBS

Great car, no complaints here

Great car, way more fun than many others

M3? why?

Very solid, just a few minor dislikes

Love this Car!

Amazing car!  You'll be hooked.

Maybe the best all around car

Great Car

A true driver's car

Prime "hidden" sports car

Great Wagon

Great kid car

Cheap & Fun AWD Car!

Happy so far

My 2.5RS w/ sport package

2008 WRX Wagon 5 spd

Too many RATTLES

WOW! A Hidden Gem Among "Small" Cars

LOVE my WRX

My second Sti- destruction of a fine car

Almost perfect

The car I always wanted!

THE GREATEST CAR EVAR!

It Imprezzed Me

A great little car!

Pleasant car to drive

A car thats Bought with Good Intentions

Poor mileage

Not quite there

Best 1st Car

Great Little Car

3rd Subie

Surprisingly fun

My first and last Subaru

2008 Subaru 2.5i

Sturdy Build and a Fun to drive

A better SAAB...?

Go Fast Stealth Mode

165,000 mile update

A Good Buy!

Solid, sensible fun

90,000 mile update - Tranny Problem

Great car for the money!

190,000 Mile Update

A step up

PERFECT 10

Great AWD car!

Car is solid

All weather street-legal racecar

Good car with some flaws

A complete review through 120,000 miles

2004 STi a.k.a bargin 911 Turbo

The best car ever!!!!!!!!!!

Can't go wrong with the STi

This car ROCKS

best thing I ever own

My Spaceship

Best Car I've Ever Owned.

Little charmer

Fun sports car yet fuel efficient

After 7 years

Fun Car

Hit and Miss

Great little Subie

Subaru can't fix it?

My Favorite Girlfriend

dog mobile

A VW Convert

Lucky 13 years

A fun vehicle

It does it all!

Race Car meets Soccer Mom Car

14 years 282,000 miles

Love my Rex

Insurance

Reliable

2 head gaskets at 20k

Great Wagon!

Love it!

Nice, functional little car

Rally Sport Special

lemon

This car just doesn't quit

Solid car, with quirks

Awesome Little Wagon

Fantastic all around car for anyone

Greatest car ever built

Never Buying Subaru AGAIN

I will never buy another Subaru 

This car just saved my sons life and his 3 friends

My own review and opinion of the 2.5RS

Needs refinement- but I love mine!

A great car

2.5 RS

The best looking Subaru yet!

Impressive

If not the Greatest

Sporty Compact Enthusiast Sedan

NoMoreSubi

I miss my RS2.5 already

My first Subaru

Wow, where do I start?

Peppy, all the bells and whistles, safe

No Subarus in the future for me

Belongs in the junkyard!!!

Rock Solid car with only few minor glitches

Canadian Opinion

Does it all

Subaru hits a home run in 2007

Don't see the quality

Like a bad marriage. When it starts breaking, DUMP IT.

Very Happy

Best I've Ever Owned

Good, but could be better

true Road Commander

great car

Worst car ever owned!!!!!!!!!!!!

burns oil, engine needs replacing

10 Years in the Family

Sure-footed, but incredibly unreliable

Best car for the money

Car saved my life

The 2005 2.5XT Limited is the one to get

Subaru 05 Outback Sudan

Green Bean

1st on many SUBAROO to come! love it

Best Bang For Your Buck!

'08 OB Looking Good

Some good, some bad

Gotta love my 2008 Outback 

2008 Outback i limited

Best Wagon for $30K

Great car for the snow areas.

Second Beaner

Subaru won't stand behind its product

Word of Warning

Needs to be bigger and stronger...

Just Fantastic Vehicle

Great car! Fun to drive. Great performer

I came back to Subaru!

Worst car I have ever owned!

7 years and counting....

Gearing

Love it! 

Fabulous!

Second Outback ... better than our '13.

Best value in its class.

Very Subaru

Outback Shine Again

Ski car

Beware Audio Issues

engine blew a little over 100'000

Engine Blew at 107,000

The Outback, great choice in this segment

Happy With 2012....Should we have waited for '13?

handling

wanderer

Horrible technology...

Thought I loved my Murano but really love the Outback

All purpose vehicle

They need to upgrade the quality of their plastics and fix some of the "accepted" normal problems with Subarus

Reliable. Good value, gas mileage & off road. 

Very Pleased

Great Car needed better Shocks

Very refined over previous Outbacks!

Good car but comes with problems

Love, love, love my first Subaru!

So Far, So Good

The great and the not so great

I traded it in

2014 Subaru Outback Limited vs 2015

2015 Outback Premium

4 up and one down...way down

DEAD Batteries  - Subaru finally replaced battery

Dead battery problem-UPDATE...

My GSP's transport vehicle

A perfect Fit

Starlink needs improving

Best Outback Yet!

Should have bought one sooner

Outback Features make my commute easier!

Saved Our Lives

Outback 3.6R Limited...falling in love...fast!

Love my Outback Touring!

A Subaru alternative for Allroad, X3, GLC shoppers

2017 Subaru Outback 3.6R Limited is great!

2017 Subaru Outback Touring 3.6R

GO FOR THE 3.6R

Yahoo Subie-Roo

Exhaustive comparison

Super 'Ru

Great awd car that thinks it's an SUV

Long Time Owner

No regrets

Hard to Beat!

DON'T BUY OVER 60K MILES!

My money pit

NICE CAR BUT....

Overall great car!

Watch Out

My choice but not my wife's!

My 2017 Outback Limited with pizzaz!

Super Wagon

This Outback Fills The Bill

Subaru Outback 2.5i Limited

WOW! Our first Subaru Outback - update at 30K mile

Worth the wait

Different Point of View

wind / mirror noise

Great all around car!

1996 Subaru Outback wagon AWD

Campus Cruisin' Econo-style

Dead reliable , but clumsy & thirsty

220,000+ miles

Solid, reliable, and practical

BEAST

Climb a tree if you hit it right!

Keeps stalling

Great car but 2.5L mechanically is terrible

Love this car!

Loving this vehicle!

4wd Swiss Army Knife

3rd Subaru for John of Columbus, NC

Love this Subaru

Great Car, Great Value

New Purchase Satisfaction

Traded in a Forester for an Outback

Great New 2011 OutBack 2.5i Limited

Believe the hype!

I waited 60k miles before I wrote this review

Can't get much better

2011 Outback - from a high mileage driver

BEST MILEAGE SUV awd

Great Reliable Car!

Great Balance

Decent, but burning oil

High Value Car

Rust its what makes a subaru

Dont Buy it if you have big thighs

Grinding noises and burns oil

My Third Subaru

We Love this Car More and More!

Subaru needs to redesign the braking system

Never expected to like it so much

Car for areas with snow

Dollar for Dollar it can't be beat

Pretty good, but could be better.

Everything perfect except for the transmission

We love our outback and so do our dogs!

Traded a Forester for an Outback

Outback's maiden voyage to Baja

3 years old now and still love it

surprised fan

Have snow, will travel

It's a winner

Love my new Outback

Nice Car, Poor Gas Mileage

The Wanderer

Love my Subaru!

Love my Outback

unique wagon

Happy to Join the Subaru Family

Luxury Swiss Army Knife

Great for families (my intended purpose)

Love this car

My 2012 Subaru Outback Review!

What's not to like?

6 Month Review

Who Needs A Minivan?

Highly Recommend the 2012 Subaru Outback

First car!

Best Subaru Yet!

Not as good as I had hoped for.

Impressive Machine

Competent and fun utility vehicle 

2013 Outback Adds Bells and Whistles

Forget the 2012 model, 2013 is the one to get

Good except for black interior and NAV system

Excellent car with minor quirks

Met my Expectations! 

10,000 Mile Review

The good, bad and ugly

My first Subaru - 900 mile review

45,000 Miles Later

Excellent except HK Audio/Nav system

Love Our 2013 Subaru Outback Limited 

After owning a Lexus RX, this car surpasses

Bluetooth sucks

Suspension is a little hard as are the interior plastics

John of Columbus, NC loves his Outback Limited

A 98 out of 100

High Expectations Were Met or Exceeded

Electrical drain

2016 Outback 3.6 Limited w/MRP/KAS/NAV/ES-CVT

Moving up to the 2016 Outback Limited

Not even close

Outstanding in all respects.

bluebaru

Outback 3.6R Limited

No complaints. Whaaaat?

blown engine and transmission

Virgin2 Outback

Perfect family car

Outback 2.5i New

Backing up/low visability

'09 Outback

Well, that was a huge waste of money!

Will drive forever

Will Buy Another One!

Not drinkin' the cool-aid

Sports sedan of an SUV 

Great vehicle, finally grown up

Still Happy after a Year

Excellent Choice... 2 yrs later

2011 Outback 2.5 limited w/auto CVT

High number of Repairs

Continuous costly repairs

Wish they still made this more car-like wagon

Surprised by Subaru

2009 Outback Constantly Rattles

Former VW - BMW Owner

2010 SUV of the Year? Not really...

I really wanted to like this car, but...

Very Happy

Needs redesign of back end

Never again

Very Disappointed

Good Value

got rid of the Lemmon. Sub frame rotted out, widow

Wait for the 2011

Having Second Thoughts on Subaru

There's a LOT of room for improvement!

just gets better

Blind spot and poor sight lines are a deal killer

Love my green machine

Nice when new

New Car Purchase

Reliable Pseudo-Luxury Vehicle

Subaru's Rock Solid Build Quality Gone

Love / Hate Relationship

We Questioned next purchase and  Now have another.

My first and last Subaru.

GREAT FAMILY CAR!

Poor craftsmanship

2nd Subaru

Lovin' it

Nothing but trouble

Good solid car

It Rocks!

Subaru, where did the reliability go?

Very nice car, but a bit cramped interior

The quality and love are gone! 

Seriously reconsidering buying another Subaru

SAFETY FIRST

Excellent Vehicle

I dare you to find a better car for the money!

Very Impressed with the new Outback Limited Loaded

Subaru Outback - flawless performance -

Customer must change the phone?

Excellent vehicle

Sports Car in Disguise

As Advertised--But With Minor Annoyances

Solid Car

Surprisingly terrific

Check Engine Light Horrors

Liked my old one better

Only time I've bought a 3rd one.

Great car - great buy

The PERFECT Car?

Still getting acquainted with my Subie

Worry free vehicle

It's like a cockroach - it's almost indestructible

A superior fast touring car

Too small for a family car

Can't believe this is a Subaru

Head Gasket built to fail

 Big Dissapointment

03 outback 2.5L SOHC

13 years old and going strong

Loving Subaru! I do not want to drive anything els

Avoid this model

VDC - Very Dynamic Car

Reliability of McIntosh Stereo

Outback VDC H6 wagon

Good job overall

A Thin Line between Love and Hate

Love it

never again!!!!

So long, Subaru

Smooth 6 cylinder Outback

Its taken me to the moon..now I want to come back

Just a great car.  175k miles and going strong.

The Best as long as its an H6

Best Subaru Yet

Nice car, be good to it and will probably be good to you.

A Lesson Learned The Hard Way

200,000 miles and counting!

Guess I got the lemon

I may have been unlucky but this thing was hardly reliable

WHAT A MONEY PIT!! TOO BAD :(

Best car ever owned

Canadian 6 cyl H6 3.0 model wonder!

Subaru takes a step up.

Versatile

Great car until it hit 100k miles

Excellent car

The best vehicle I have ever owned.

One helluva great car

2 blown head gaskets 20k miles

Head gasket nightmare

snow mobile

Excellent performance and comfort

great car

A great suprise

Subarules

Reliable all-weather wagon

Looking for a commuter?

Great car

I love my Subaru

Feel Secure

My baby!

Great Car

Noisy low mileage sub

Buy an '04, not newer body style

Good for snow, but thirsty and noisy

6 Years Old and 125k miles

Won over!

4 vs 6

Solid Subaru

Mountain lion/Battle tank

Great Snow vehicle but MAN the Oil leaks...

Love my Outback

Not a bad Car...

Worst car ever owned

Never again

Best automobile

Blown Turbo(s)

Going back to Toyota

Third time's charm!

Bad Catalytic converter $$

AWD Mini Tank with indy car handling.

Don't buy a repo'd car

Great all around vehicle

Good solid basic transportation

saved many trucks from the snowbanks...

Best Of The Best

A car that keeps on giving

Kudos

Horrible!!!

Great all-around fun to drive car

Good Car So Far

Solid car but expensive to maintain

Very reliable car

Running Great for 12 years

My Subaru

One Great Car!!

2003 Subaru Legacy

My fourth Subaru

Poor quality can't hide

8 years on: many major repairs

Bought it for $500

Bought it for $500 pt2

Reliability?

97SubLegWagon

Satisfied in Maine

It's not all that it's cracked up to be

Excellent car

Accord and Camry: we want a wagon

Great for the Northwest roads!

Just don't expect service

'04 falling apart

MAD-MAN'S FACTS

Best ride & handling combo

legacy 35th manual wagon

Subaru once, Subaru always.......

Nice machine...on snow

Excellent Auto

Subaru Me - Once More

Love my Subie!

Safe, Dependable and fun

"Bummer" Should have been recalled!

04 legacy anniversary edition.

Not happy

A car to love!

All around great car

A winner

High quality

Legacy at Head of Class

Oh but for the seats

Drive this car

07 Legact GT, 5spd Man

My first Subaru

Legacy for a Legacy

Best Car I've owned

Great car!

amazing 

Good family car for snow belt

Lots of Room and Lots of Fun

10K and all is OK

Great All-Wheel-Drive, but weak a/c

Couldn't be more pleased

From a Critic

Subie junkie

Still kind of amazed.

Love my Legacy!

fast family car

Nice Car

Happy Buyer

Finally...The Car I've Wanted

Legacy GT Turbo

Dang good car

2009 Legacy 

Review from Desert Environment

Love the features, Not so much performance

Very happy three months in

Well rounded sports sedan

3.0R around 1k miles initial review

Do not buy this car!!!

Great car

Suprise!

subaru is a great car for every day driving

Loving Legacy

legacy GT limited

Legacy 3.6R limited with Navigation

This one does it all!!

Awesome so far...

3rd in the family

False MPG

One of the Nicest Cars That No One Talks About.

Good Driving, Serious Flaws

2012 Legacy Buyers Check Steering Before Buying

Alternative to the masses

Mechanic told me its a great car!

First Subaru Experience

Perfect

Everything I Wanted In Car

Fabulous Car

The Car I almost Overlooked !

My 1st SUBARU-"It's a keeper"-STILL!

Excellent all around

2009 Subaru Legacy Special Edition

My First and Only Subaru

Solid sedan

Shaking steering wheel

Impressed

The $20K Mercedes

Best in Snow

Engineering Problem

Choose the 3.6over the 2.5i, you won't be sorry!

First impressions of a Legacy 3.6 R

Air Flow and Media Hub problems?

Nice car, but one issue

Noise coming from under hood.

Nice Car

Love this car!!

2nd Subaru and it just isn't the same

Ultimate cold weather machine!

Sweet Subie (Part Deux)

Good quality, have yet to see full potential

Solid Subaru

Not much positive

2013 Upgrades hurt overall ratings

More Fun Every Day

Great Car

2013 Subaru Legacy Sport

pleased

Overrated car.

Snow monster, off road ability, MPG :)

Best kept secret in mid-size cars

Best Deal out there: Legacy

Great All-Around Car For The Money

Surprised

Perfect  If You're Looking For An AWD Sedan

Researched midsize sedans for a couple months...

Awesome midsize luxury option

Discover Subaru

A Dream Ride

Jack of many trades, master of none...but that's fine by me.

Subaru Legacy 3.6R Limited 

Something wrong with the Transmission

Incredible value and nice looking

2011 2.5 Limited with moonroof

Blizzard of Dec 26th

Great 1st time buyers car

VERY POOR HEATING AND COOLING

The 2014 Subaru CVT is garbage

Dollar for dollar hard to beat. Great resale value

My first and last Subaru

Stiff Ride negates positives.

Bumpy and Sluggish, but fabulous in snow

Some things have grown & some have not

2 years and 49,000 miles later

Poor ride

82500 miles and very happy

Bad Ride

Eats oil

Excellent twist between a sport sedan and daily

great car!

Pleasant surprise

Side molding between the tires 

Death by Subaru vs. Contributory Negligence Laws

Goes through headlights like crazy!

Chiropractor should be included!

So far pretty good car

Just Took Ownership of a 2010 Legacy - CPO

So THIS is why people buy imports..

Happy :) 

I finally "get" the Subaru commercials..

2010 Legacy Nice Car 

Great Car for Tall Commuter in the Snow

All good except the seats are a pain

First Subbie

Watch out A6 and M35's

A 3 series beater

Sporty and overall great car!

Great all weather vehicle

Ticking When Turning the Engine Off

Best buy for the buck

Good, reliable car

Love my car

Great family sedan!!

Good Car for the Money

2008 Subary Legacy 3.0R

Subie convert!!

Traded after 20k Miles

The best kept secret, Suburu!

Nice Car

buying a preowned Legacy GT

Very impressed!

Best of all...it's reliable!

Ultimate sleeper

Understated good looks, safe, reliable

Amazing!

Worth every penny.

GT Limited review

Getting there

great car

fast car, small price.

Honest/ Informed Review

Great Car until 85,000 miles, then it started to fall apart.

Well researched decision

Great Value

Undercover blast

Thought I liked it for about 4 months.

2006 Subaru Legacy 2.5i SE

love it.

Great Value AWD Sedan

Oil change issues

Great car for family and Michigan

Blam.

Just a really well built car

A "poorman's Porsche" 4 wheel wagon?   

Good, solid, fun car

Some good & Lotsa bad

The Dragon Wagon

2006 Legacy GT Limited 5EAT automatic

2006 Subaru Legacy Limited junk

Reliability & a Great Driver Too!

Lovin' our new Subaru

Fun to drive

Not your father's Subaru

Givin' up features for the speed

2005 Legacy GT Limited sedan

Good car to own and drive

Great Car - but stumped the expert

2005 Legacy GT Wagon

Great car, some nitpicks

13000 miles and no problems

2015 update on last report

Great driving SUV replacement

Best car for the money

Definitely won't buy another Subaru...

Problems after 55,000 miles

05 GT Wagon

Dream Car

Great Car

Recent reviews have been wonky

A Forgotten Gem

Leave on a high note

good car... until 100k miles, then sell it quick

LOVE MY SUBARU

Great Car Skip the Automatic

2005 Legacy GT wagon 

You'd be surprised...

good car

Great Car

2000 Legacy GT Limited

Solid, Dependable, Fun to Drive

Disappointed

Very disaponted

Great Car

Lightweight

Excellent car thanks Subaru

2000 Subaru Legacy L Wagon 5-speed

great car for the $$$$$

No weaknesses

Reliable Car - Fun to Drive

Outback is A OK

very pleased

Hope to NEVER own one ever again@

DON"T BY A SUBARU

Worth every penny!

more go less show

A lot of car for the money

A Fine SUV Choice

My 6th Subaru

Lots of room

Subaricious!

Engine Failure at 106K miles

On Subaru 10...and FINAL

First and last subaru. Their junk

Rock solid reliability

So gland I got rid of it!

Buy cheap, get cheap

Not The Best Car I've owned.

great first 'adult' car

love it

Clutch issues

Problem after problem

Really Reliable Subie

 2002 Subaru Legacy L

Subaru Legacy

Be cautious if buying used

Can't part with it.

From Outback to GT

Piece of junk, NEVER again

Junkie

she gave us 130K trouble-free miles

Wonderful car

Reliable all-weather performer

We hate this car! Bring back the '94!

Fun to drive around mountains roads.

Good car, not great

Eh... won't do again

AWD Awesome!

Reliable Vehicle

Reliable,  uncomfortable seats

Subaru get an A

Worst car I ever owned

love it

Great car to drive

Great car

1998 Subaru  2.5 GT Wagon

Not bad after 8 years

Great all around car

Love this Car

98 Legacy L Wagon, 5spd - College Car

98 Legacy Outback Wagon "AUTO"

Last Subaru I'll ever buy!

GREAT CAR BUT HAS ITS MECHANICAL FLAWS

190,000 miles

Time to Go

2.5 GT Wagon

Not quite on top, but FAR from the bottom

terrible perofrmance

Update

Ol' Reliable

The Adventure Wagon

Watch those head gaskets

Awesome Car!!!

typical head gasket problems

This takes the silver

Little wagon that could

Perfect car? Maybe so!

1998 subaru legacy PROBLEMS

Poor head gasket design

Still Chugging too

Keeping it forever

They don't build em like they used to

Ugh. Never again.

HUGE Headache

All of our friends liked THEIR subaru.......

Good Car with Some Quirks

I'm Done with Subaru

Highly Recommended

Reliable, simple & uncomfortable

Great Car but Subaru Dealers SUCK!

Great Subaru Can't Go Wrong

Amazing until 100k

fooled

Not like previous Subarus

Great ideas, but rough around the edges

I modified mines, no problems!

Good car for the money

Impressed

Not sporty at all but great car! 

Very good AWD car, but...

1999 Subaru Outback

Sally Subaru 
Beware of the headgasket 

1999 Outback Legacy Wagon

The Overlooked Gem

Really loving my legacy

I Bought My 2017 Legacy for Safety features

Empirical improvements over other legacy years

What a change!

Good car for the price.

Can't go wrong with Legecy

My 2nd Subaru.

Owned 2017 Legacy 3.6R for one week now

Best Car that I have ever had

Subaru Bang for the Buck

gray subaru

Mostly fabulous!

Nice, midsized car

what I expected

Great car!

Beats Accord & Camry

The Pillow

Checked-out all the sedans. Legacy rose to the top

FOR THE PRICE I AM EXTREMELY HAPPY!

Great Alternative to the usual sedans

Great car!

Will Not Buy It Again!

Had owned 6 previous Subaru's. 73,76,79,83,84,84

Luxury, sleek, fun

Stay away

Fast, handles well and comfortable!

Love ourLegacy

Still love my Subaru Legacy

Traded a 2015 WRX for a better car for me

its a subaru thing , u wouldn't understand.

Love this car

Great value

Great all-around car

All wheel drive, period

Love it but . . .

Swapping my Mercedes E class for a Legacy

The more things change the more they stay the same

Great car

Good safe family car

Love my grandma car!

Good Bang for your Buck..

5th Subi

2015 Subaru Legacy 3.6 limited under performs

Sue Bee has great tech features

Love it

I am happy with 2015 Legacy

Not Just for a Niche Market Anymore

2015 Subaru Legacy - Homerun!!!

Great car overall, but poor acceleration

I want to love my Subaru but....

Subaru ups their game

Great value with a few peculiarities

Six Speed Manual Legacy

A missed opportunity for Subaru

Tight smooth ride

1st Subaru..... and probably not last Subaru

Forgot the EPA mileage!

BEST MID-SIZED SEDAN FOR ME

6 Time Subaru Owner's Honest Opinion

.
