88

Board Report

Corporate Governance

Directors are expected to prepare themselves for and to attend all Board of Directors meetings, the annual general 
meeting of shareholders and the meetings of the committees on which they serve, with the understanding that, on 
occasion, a Director may be unable to attend a meeting.

During 2016, there were six meetings of the Board of Directors. The average attendance at those meetings was 97 percent.

The current composition of the Board of Directors is the following:

  John Elkann (executive director) - John Elkann is Chairman of FCA. He was appointed Chairman of Fiat S.p.A. on 
April 21, 2010 where he previously served as Vice Chairman beginning in 2004 and as a board member beginning 
December 1997. Mr. Elkann is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exor N.V. and Chairman and Managing 
Director of Giovanni Agnelli B.V. Born in New York in 1976, Mr. Elkann obtained a scientific baccalaureate from 
the Lycée Victor Duruy in Paris, and graduated in Engineering from Politecnico, the Engineering University of Turin 
(Italy). While at university, he gained work experience in various companies of the Fiat Group in the UK and Poland 
(manufacturing) as well as in France (sales and marketing). He started his professional career in 2001 at General 
Electric as a member of the Corporate Audit Staff, with assignments in Asia, the U.S. and Europe. Mr. Elkann is 
Chairman of PartnerRe and of Italiana Editrice S.p.A., Vice Chairman of Ferrari N.V. and Ferrari S.p.A. and a board 
member of The Economist Group. Mr. Elkann is a member of the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). He also serves 
as Vice Chairman of the Italian Aspen Institute and of the Giovanni Agnelli Foundation.

  Sergio Marchionne (executive director) - Sergio Marchionne currently serves as Chief Executive Officer of FCA 
and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of both FCA US and FCA Italy. In addition, he is also Chairman of CNHI 
and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ferrari N.V. and Ferrari S.p.A. Born in Chieti (Italy) in 1952, he has 
dual Canadian and Italian citizenship. He holds a Bachelor of Arts with a major in Philosophy from the University of 
Toronto and a Bachelor of Laws from Osgoode Hall Law School at York University in Toronto, as well as a Master of 
Business Administration and a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Windsor (Canada). Mr. Marchionne is a 
barrister, solicitor and chartered accountant. Mr. Marchionne began his professional career in Canada. From 1983 
to 1985, he worked for Deloitte & Touche. From 1985 to 1988, he was with the Lawson Mardon Group of Toronto. 
From 1989 to 1990, he served as Executive Vice President of Glenex Industries. From 1990 to 1992, he was Chief 
Financial Officer at Acklands Ltd. From 1992 to 1994, also in Toronto, he held the position of Vice President of 
Legal and Corporate Development and Chief Financial Officer of the Lawson Mardon Group. From 1994 to 2000, 
he covered various positions of increasing responsibility at Algroup, headquartered in Zurich (Switzerland), until 
becoming its Chief Executive Officer. He then went on to head the Lonza Group Ltd, first as Chief Executive Officer 
(2000-2001) and then as Chairman (2002). In February 2002, he became Chief Executive Officer of the SGS Group 
of Geneva. In March 2006, he was appointed Chairman of the company, a position which he continues to hold. 
From 2008 to April 2010, he also served as non-executive Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Director of UBS. 
In 2010, Mr. Marchionne joined the Board of Directors of Exor S.p.A. (now Exor N.V.) and, in 2015, was appointed 
non-executive Vice Chairman. As of September 2013, he is also Chairman of CNH Industrial N.V., the company 
resulting from the mergers of Fiat Industrial S.p.A. and CNH Global N.V. Mr. Marchionne is currently a member 
of the Board of Philip Morris International Inc. and the Peterson Institute for International Economics, as well as 
Chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy and member of the J.P. Morgan International Council. 
Mr. Marchionne is recipient of ad honorem degrees in Industrial Engineering and Management from Polytechnic 
University in Turin (Italy) and in Economics from the University of Cassino (Italy), a Masters honoris causa in Business 
Administration from the CUOA Foundation (Italy), an honorary Doctor of Laws from the University of Windsor 
(Canada) and Walsh College in Troy (Michigan), and honorary doctorates in Business Administration from the 
University of Toledo (Ohio), in Science from Oakland University in Rochester (Michigan) and in Humane Letters from 
Indiana University Kokomo (Indiana). Mr. Marchionne also holds the honor of Cavaliere del Lavoro.

2016 | ANNUAL REPORT