86

Corporate Governance

The current composition of the Board of Directors is the following:

  John Elkann (executive director) - John Elkann is Chairman of FCA. He was appointed Chairman of Fiat S.p.A. on 
April 21, 2010 where he previously served as Vice Chairman beginning in 2004 and as a board member beginning 
December 1997. Mr. Elkann is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exor S.p.A and Chairman of Giovanni 
Agnelli e C. Sapaz. Born in New York in 1976, Mr. Elkann obtained a scientific baccalaureate from the Lycée Victor 
Duruy in Paris, and graduated in Engineering from Politecnico, the Engineering University of Turin (Italy). While at 
university, he gained work experience in various companies of the Fiat Group in the UK and Poland (manufacturing) 
as well as in France (sales and marketing). He started his professional career in 2001 at General Electric as a 
member of the Corporate Audit Staff, with assignments in Asia, the USA and Europe. Mr. Elkann is Chairman of 
Italiana Editrice S.p.A. and a board member of CNHI, The Economist Group and News Corporation. Mr. Elkann is 
a member of the IAC of Brookings Institution and of the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). He also serves as Vice 
Chairman of the Italian Aspen Institute and of the Giovanni Agnelli Foundation.

  Sergio Marchionne (executive director) - Sergio Marchionne currently serves as Chief Executive Officer of 
FCA and Chairman of Ferrari N.V. He is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of both FCA US and FCA 
Italy and Chairman of CNHI. Born in Chieti, Italy in 1952, he has dual Canadian and Italian citizenship. He 
holds a Bachelor of Arts with a major in Philosophy from the University of Toronto and a Bachelor of Laws from 
Osgoode Hall Law School at York University in Toronto, as well as a Master of Business Administration and a 
Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Windsor (Canada). Mr. Marchionne is a barrister, solicitor and 
chartered accountant. Mr. Marchionne began his professional career in Canada. From 1983 to 1985, he worked 
for Deloitte & Touche. From 1985 to 1988, he was with the Lawson Mardon Group of Toronto. From 1989 to 
1990, he served as Executive Vice President of Glenex Industries. From 1990 to 1992, he was Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) at Acklands Ltd. From 1992 to 1994, also in Toronto, he held the position of Vice President of 
Legal and Corporate Development and CFO of the Lawson Mardon Group. From 1994 to 2000, he covered 
various positions of increasing responsibility at Algroup, headquartered in Zurich (Switzerland), until becoming its 
CEO. He then went on to head the Lonza Group Ltd, first as CEO (2000-2001) and then as Chairman (2002). In 
February 2002, he became CEO of the SGS Group of Geneva. In March 2006, he was appointed Chairman of 
the company, a position which he continues to hold. From 2008 to April 2010, he also served as non-executive 
Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Director of UBS. In 2010, Mr. Marchionne joined the Board of Directors of 
Exor S.p.A. and, in 2015, was appointed non-executive Vice Chairman. Since 2013, he has served as Chairman 
of CNHI, the company resulting from the mergers of Fiat Industrial S.p.A. and CNH Global N.V. Mr. Marchionne 
is currently a member of the Board of Philip Morris International Inc. and the Peterson Institute for International 
Economics, as well as Chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy. Mr. Marchionne is recipient of ad 
honorem degrees in Industrial Engineering and Management from Polytechnic University in Turin (Italy) and in 
Economics from the University of Cassino (Italy), a Masters honoris causa in Business Administration from the 
CUOA Foundation (Italy), an honorary Doctor of Laws from the University of Windsor (Canada) and Walsh College 
in Troy (Michigan), and honorary doctorates in Business Administration from the University of Toledo (Ohio), in 
Science from Oakland University in Rochester (Michigan) and in Humane Letters from Indiana University Kokomo 
(Indiana). Mr. Marchionne also holds the honor of Cavaliere del Lavoro.

2015 | ANNUAL REPORT