113

Hybrid and Battery Propulsion
The all-new Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid achieves an efficiency rating of 84 miles per gallon equivalent (MPGe), based on 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards. The Pacifica Hybrid is also expected to provide an estimated range 
of 33 miles solely on zero-emissions electric power, with its battery being capable of being recharged in approximately 
two hours using a level 2 240 volt charger. When the battery’s energy is depleted to a certain threshold, the Pacifica 
Hybrid operates like a conventional hybrid.

Power to the wheels is supplied by the electric drive system or supplemented by a specially adapted new version 
of the award-winning Pentastar 3.6-liter V-6 engine, which is paired with the dual-motor electrically variable 
transmission (“EVT”).

Additional electrification technologies applicable to rear- and all-wheel drive based vehicles are also being developed.

Natural Gas engines
A fundamental aspect of our vehicle emission reduction strategy and the use of alternative fuels, from natural gas to 
biofuels, is to offer technologies that are aligned with the fuels available in various markets, and capable of reducing 
emission levels.

We believe that in certain markets compressed natural gas is a viable near to medium-term option for promoting 
compliance with future fuel economy and emissions requirements. We offer a range of bi-fuel (natural gas/gasoline) 
vehicles in Europe, targeting a wide variety of private and commercial consumers. Safety and comfort remain 
uncompromised, as natural gas tanks in these vehicles are designed to be fully integrated into the vehicle structure.

Diesel engines
In recent years, diesel research has focused on the combustion process and after-treatment technologies.

On the combustion side, enhanced control of injection parameters together with optimization of combustion bowl 
shape represented a key step in reducing “engine-out” pollutants and enhancing fuel economy.

In terms of after-treatment systems, research and development activities have mainly focused on continuous 
improvements to passive and active NOx reduction technologies optimized for the next generation diesel powertrains. 
Advanced after-treatment systems for the reduction of NOx emissions are under development both for passenger car 
and light commercial vehicle applications. In particular, we have incorporated the selective catalyst reduction (“SCR”) 
after-treatment system to reduce NOx emissions into Fiat Ducato vehicles coupled with 2.3L diesel engines, and Ram 
ProMaster, Jeep Grand Cherokee and Ram 1500 vehicles coupled with 3.0L diesel engines.

Transmissions
Our transmission portfolio includes manual transmissions, automated manual transmissions, or AMTs, dual dry clutch 
transmissions, or DDCTs, and automatic transmissions. The automatic transmission portfolio includes 8- and 9-speed 
units developed in an effort to provide our customers with improved efficiency, performance and drive comfort. Also, 
a DDCT has been recently launched in a new coupling with the 1.6L diesel engine to gain efficiency and fuel economy. 
We utilize a broad portfolio of transmissions to meet varying local market demands in the different regions where we 
operate to achieve vehicle performance characteristics aligned with our brands.

Axles and Driveline
We focus on producing lightweight axle and driveline systems that provide capability and efficiency across our entire 
portfolio of vehicles. Additionally, we have deployed automatic axle disconnect systems on the majority of our four-
wheel and all-wheel drive equipped vehicles to reduce parasitic losses and improve fuel economy during normal 
driving conditions. Future development activities are focused on optimized system design and material selection to 
reduce overall system weight without sacrificing capability or performance.

2016 | ANNUAL REPORT