111

Sustainable Mobility
As driver expectations change and mobility scenarios evolve, FCA has devoted resources to research, development 
and experimentation of innovative technologies, including a growing number of connectivity and mobility solutions and 
autonomous-vehicle technology.

By participating in initiatives like TEAM (Tomorrow’s Elastic Adaptive Mobility), FCA’s primary research center, CRF, 
has joined partners such as telecommunication providers, research institutes and traffic managers to design solutions 
to connect vehicle drivers, travelers and infrastructure operators. The goal is to connect the vehicles into the mobility 
network taking advantage of new communication technologies, e.g., V2X.

Developing mobility and connectivity solutions involves not only technology but also understanding vehicle owner habits 
and trends, and involving them in the process. FCA has been engaged in research on future social and technological trends 
that will affect nearly every aspect of our business - from design to manufacturing, marketing and human resources. In 
2015, we initiated the Global Connected Car of the Future research project focusing on the consumer experience inside the 
vehicle, along with emerging consumer trends. The project spanned globally across five countries, focusing on cities where 
consumer technology is leading edge: Berlin, Germany; Tokyo, Japan; Vancouver, Canada; Stockholm, Sweden and San 
Francisco, U.S. This worldwide market perspective will inform long-term connected car strategies.

As connectivity and mobility options evolve, so does the attention on autonomous-vehicle technology. We continue to 
demonstrate our commitment to advancing the development of autonomous-vehicle technology by offering Advanced 
Driver Assistance Systems.

FCA believes that an automaker’s environmental responsibility should extend beyond the production line to the way 
customers drive their vehicles. Eco:Drive is a software system that offers personalized tips to drivers based on driving 
style with the objective of helping them reduce fuel consumption and emissions. In 2015, eco:Drive was extended 
to the 2016 500L in North America and is available in Europe, Brazil, the U.S. and Canada for most Fiat and Fiat 
Professional models. In Europe, the data collected from eco:Drive’s best users confirmed that fuel consumption can 
be reduced by up to 16 percent using this system. By the end of 2015, more than 102,200 customers, including more 
than 3,800 new users, had used this software. FCA has launched a variety of initiatives to respond to customer needs, 
particularly in the urban environment.

Enjoy is a car-sharing service that offers a fleet of high efficiency vehicles to urban drivers. It was launched in Milan 
(Italy) by ENI at the end of 2013, in partnership with FCA which provided more than 1,900 vehicles. Since the service 
was launched, approximately 420,000 individuals in Milan, Rome, Florence and Turin have signed up to use it and 
five million rentals have been logged. The operations, from registration to use, are managed online using special 
smartphone applications.

In addition, FCA’s Autonomy program provides Mass-Market brand tailored vehicle solutions for customers with reduced 
motor abilities in EMEA region. In Italy, revenues from the sale of Autonomy vehicles totaled about €144 million in 2015.

In collaboration with the Italian Departments of Education and the Environment, FCA launched the Fiat Likes U project 
in 2012. The project represents the first time in Europe that an automaker has worked with universities on an initiative 
to promote environmental awareness and the use of eco-friendly cars through a three-pronged approach: Mobility 
(free car-sharing service for students), Study (university scholarships and seminars conducted by FCA managers) and 
Work (paid internships within the Group). In addition to the 10 Italian universities involved, the second phase of the 
Fiat Likes U (April, 2014 - December, 2015) project extended to six additional countries, reaching more than 720,000 
students. The initiative proved to be very successful, with more than 4,000 students using the car-sharing service, 
which includes a fleet of Fiat Pandas and 500Ls, and logging more than 715,000 kilometers.

FCA, as an Official Global Partner of Expo Milano 2015, provided a fleet5 of sustainable vehicles for the delegations of 
the 40 countries hosted. Thirty five natural-gas powered 500Ls equipped with Uconnecttm system have been offered 
with the Share&Drive car-sharing service. The success of the initiative can be seen in the numbers: 6,700 rentals with 
approximately 26,000 hours of use, representing more than 270,000 km traveled.

5  A total of 81 vehicles: 71 natural gas/biomethane Fiat 500Ls and 10 Fiat 500e electric powered.

2015 | ANNUAL REPORT