8

Letter from the Chairman

Letter from the Chairman

Dear Shareholders,
The results for 2013 demonstrate how successfully the Group managed a very challenging year. 
Revenues reached nearly €87 billion and worldwide vehicle shipments increased to 4.4 million units, to highlight just a couple of milestones.
Beyond the figures, however, 2013 was an exceptional year above all for what was accomplished to integrate Fiat and Chrysler, two distinct 
entities, to create the world’s seventh largest auto group.
Of the many notable results achieved, I would like to highlight three in particular. 
First is the success of Jeep. For the second consecutive year, the brand set an all-time global record of more than 731,000 vehicles sold. That 
performance demonstrates the significant work that has been done to strengthen this unique brand and we plan to continue that development 
in the coming years.
Second are the signs of improvement for our European business, despite the market registering its sixth consecutive year of decline. The 
significant reduction in losses we achieved in a difficult trading environment shows that, although there is still progress to be made, we are on 
the right path. 
The third and perhaps most important element, which represents an essential component of our future strategy, involves Maserati. Shipments 
were up 148% over the prior year to 15,400 vehicles. This notable result was driven by the success of the two new models, the Quattroporte 
and Ghibli, which entered production during the year at the new Giovanni Agnelli plant inaugurated in January 2013. It also represents the first 
concrete fruits of our premium strategy, which we intend to expand by leveraging on the design and technological excellence of our brands. 
The current year promises to be equally challenging. With acquisition of 100% ownership of Chrysler, we completed the final step necessary 
for full integration with Fiat. The story of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles is one of a strong and vibrant organization built on a solid foundation with 
ambitious plans for the future. 
Our customers, shareholders, business partners and, above all, our employees – whom I want to thank for their extraordinary contribution – all 
have a vital role to play in our future success.
A final comment on the document you are reading: this year, priority has been given to the digital on-line version of the annual report – with 
enhanced photo, video, graphic and interactive content – that will gradually replace the printed version. This is one more way in which we are 
responding in a direct and personalized manner to evolving information needs, while also enhancing the transparency and completeness of 
information provided to the market. 

/s/ John Elkann

John Elkann 
CHAIRMAN

 

 

 

Letter from the Chief Executive Officer

9

Letter from the Chief Executive Officer

Dear Shareholders,
The Group has just closed another very significant year, particularly with regard to the integration process between Fiat and Chrysler. 
What we had achieved in industrial, commercial and cultural terms laid the necessary ground work to complete that process with the completion 
of the acquisition of full ownership of Chrysler.
We believed from the beginning that the integration between Fiat and Chrysler needed to take place in practice even before it did on paper. 
For the past four and a half years, we have been working to integrate our respective traditions, transform our differences into strengths and 
break down geographic and cultural barriers.
The two groups have learned to work alongside each other in a spirit of cooperation and have made each other stronger through the sharing 
of ideas, know-how and experience.
Each with their own distinct identity, Fiat and Chrysler have shared the spirit and values of an organization intent on distinguishing itself not only 
in terms of the excellence of its products, but also for its commitment, integrity and transparency.
As you know, following a lengthy negotiation, on January 1st of this year we reached an agreement with the VEBA that cleared the way for us 
to acquire full control of Chrysler.
Although this was an historic milestone for Fiat, in reality it simply represents the formalization of the work the two organizations had already 
done to create a single group with extraordinary potential at the technical, professional and human level.
Together we have created a leading global automaker that ranks as the seventh largest in the world and the consolidated results for 2013 
demonstrate the benefits of this union.
Worldwide vehicle shipments were up 3% over the prior year to 4.4 million units.
Revenues totaled €87 billion, increasing 3% in nominal terms and 7% on a constant currency basis.
Trading profit totaled €3.4 billion and net profit was nearly €2 billion.
At year end, available liquidity totaled €22.7 billion.
In order to maintain a balanced level of liquidity following the acquisition of the minority stake in Chrysler, the Board of Directors has decided 
not to recommend a dividend on Fiat shares for 2013. 
Overall, a positive performance for the mass-market brands in North America and Asia-Pacific more than compensated for the continuing 
weakness in the European market and the slow-down in Latin America.
At the same time, our Luxury Brands posted strong growth and Components made a positive contribution.
Looking at the performance of our mass-market operations by region, in NAFTA we continued to outperform the market, with sales up 8% 
over the prior year.
In the U.S., we closed the year with 45 consecutive months of year-over-year sales gains and our strongest annual sales since 2007.

