6

2014 | ANNUAL REPORT7

Letter from the Chairman

Letter from the Chairman

Shareholders,

2014 was a major turning point in our history. With the decision announced on the first of January, we gave life to Fiat 
Chrysler Automobiles, a new global automotive player with the necessary resources to achieve solid, responsible and 
sustainable long-term growth. 

The targets set out in the strategic plan that was presented to analysts and investors by FCA’s management team 
in Auburn Hills last May clearly demonstrate the level of our determination. To some, they may seem difficult if not 
impossible to achieve. But, as in the past, we are prepared to embrace this challenge and measure ourselves by the 
results.

One of the first results we are pleased to report is that worldwide shipments in 2014 increased to a total of more than 
4.6 million vehicles. Of particular note were the results achieved by Jeep, which posted an all-time annual sales record 
of more than 1 million vehicles, and Maserati, which celebrated its 100th anniversary with the best results in its history.

In the pages of this annual report, you will find another major result. In the fourth quarter, we posted a positive EBIT 
for our European activities: something we have been working toward for seven and a half years. We fully intend to 
continue building on this turnaround, which demonstrates the far-sightedness of the strategies we set in motion some 
time ago.

Sharing technologies and architectures across brands and models has also proven to be one of our greatest 
strengths. The new Jeep Renegade and Fiat 500X are the most concrete examples. Two very different models made 
for customers with different requirements and produced alongside each other at the same plant and on the same 
platform. They have already proven such a success with customers that the new plant in Pernambuco, Brazil, will soon 
join our plant in Melfi, Italy in producing the innovative, compact Jeep. 

During the year, we launched several major investment programs aimed at improving our product offering and 
increasing the efficiency of our production processes. We also successfully completed a series of financing 
transactions that will provide us the necessary funding to move forward with our projects. FCA’s debut on the NYSE 
on October 13th represents a major milestone in our strategic development, because it gives us access to the 
enormous potential of the world’s largest financial market. 

We are proud of how much FCA has achieved in its first year, but it is not time to celebrate yet because for us this is 
just the beginning. We are working to bring many innovative new models to market that will not only meet the mobility 
needs of customers around the world, but also have enormous appeal.

Whether you have been a shareholder for many years or just a few months, I would like to express my gratitude for 
your support. Your trust is fundamental and it will enable FCA to deliver on its founding commitment: to continue with 
the same energy and enthusiasm that marked our first year and to achieve our ambitious development plans.

5 March 2015 

/s/ John Elkann

John Elkann
CHAIRMAN

2014 | ANNUAL REPORT8

Letter from the Chief Executive Officer

Shareholders,

Our Group has just closed a truly momentous year that included: the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling 
interest in Chrysler; the formation of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles – the world’s seventh-largest automaker; the debut 
of our shares on the NYSE; our return to the U.S. equity markets; record sales for both Jeep and Maserati; and Alfa 
Romeo’s return to North America after a 20-year absence. 

We presented an ambitious five-year plan to grow our business and continue building an extraordinary enterprise with 
even greater potential to deliver sustainable long-term value.

To further enhance shareholder value, we also announced our plan to spin Ferrari off from FCA, list it on the stock 
exchange and distribute FCA’s remaining Ferrari shares to FCA shareholders. We believe this course will give Ferrari 
the necessary independence, as well as ensuring it a solid platform for future growth opportunities. 

Our strong operating results in 2014 are testimony to our commitment to our values, our ability to remain focused on 
our key objectives and our determination to continue building a truly unique organization. In fact, the Group was able 
to post a profit in all regions for the fourth quarter of the year. 

Worldwide vehicle shipments were up 6% over the prior year to 4.6 million units, driving revenues 11% higher to 
€96.1 billion.

Adjusted for unusual items, EBIT was €3.7 billion and net profit was €955 million.

Available liquidity at year end totaled €26.2 billion.

In order to further fund the capital requirements of the Group’s five-year business plan, the Board of Directors has 
decided not to recommend a dividend on FCA common shares for 2014. 

Looking at the performance of our mass-market operations by region, in NAFTA we continued to outperform the 
market, with sales up 15% over the prior year. 

In the U.S., we closed the year posting our 57th consecutive month of year-over-year sales gains and our best annual 
sales since 2006. In addition, our market share was up 100 basis points which was the highest share growth of any 
OEM. In Canada, we recorded 61 straight months of growth and the strongest annual sales performance in our 
history. 

In LATAM, results were positive, although below the prior year’s level primarily as a result of weaker demand in the 
region’s main markets. Despite those conditions, FCA maintained its leadership in Brazil, a position we have held for 
13 years, increasing the lead over our nearest competitor to 350 basis points. In Argentina, market share increased 
140 basis points. 

In APAC, we posted strong earnings on the back of significant volume growth. Retail sales in the region, including JVs, 
were up 34% and we significantly outperformed the industry in each major market.

In EMEA, there were initial signs of a recovery in Europe with the industry registering a 5% increase – the first after six 
straight years of decline. 

On the back of a more favorable product mix, increased volumes and industrial efficiencies, EMEA reduced losses 
significantly. EBIT adjusted for unusual items improved by €198 million for the full year, with a return to profitability in 
the fourth quarter indicating that we are turning the corner in the region as our focus on producing premium vehicles 
for export begins to pay off. 

2014 | ANNUAL REPORTLetter from the Chief Executive Officer