8

Letter from the Chairman 
and the CEO

We are pleased that our sustainability efforts have been recognized by the world’s leading sustainability rating 
agencies. For the seventh consecutive year, FCA was included in the prestigious DJSI World Index. It was also named 
to the Climate “A” list in the CDP Climate Change Program 2015 and actively participates in additional CDP initiatives 
on Water, Forest and Supply Chain.

We also supported the UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP21) through specific commitments and 
signed the CEO Climate Leadership for Automotive Declaration, signaling our support for the vision of decarbonizing 
automotive transport. FCA’s commitment to sustainable use of the world’s resources was also marked by the signing 
of the Charter of Milan. This document, which was presented to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon at the closing of 
the Milan EXPO, reaffirms our involvement in the common goal of protecting and preserving our planet.

To name just a few examples, during 2015 we implemented more than 4,300 new environmental projects at our plants 
worldwide, leading to about €65 million in savings, while specific projects to reduce water consumption at our facilities 
resulted in €2.7 million in cost savings and 2.3 billion m3 of water saved, with our group-wide recycling index reaching 
99% in 2015.

As a result of continuous improvements over the years, the percentage of electric energy used in our manufacturing 
activities that is derived from renewable sources reached 22% in 2015.

Work-related injuries at Group facilities decreased by 20% compared to previous year, representing the 9th 
consecutive year of improvement.

FCA employees worldwide volunteered thousands of hours to serve the community in the various locations where we 
operate. In addition, the Group committed more than €22 million to local communities around the world.

A pioneer and leader in natural gas vehicles for 15 years, FCA recently revealed the Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid, the 
industry’s first electrified minivan.

We are convinced that the significant steps we have already taken and the objectives that we have set for the future 
guarantee FCA and all its stakeholders that “good practices” are not left to individual discretion, but form an integral 
part of the Group’s business strategy.

We want to thank everyone in the FCA organization for their professional and personal contributions, for their courage 
and determination to change together for the better, constantly guided by a sense of responsibility toward those who 
have placed their trust in us.

Thank you also to our shareholders and to all of our stakeholders for having been loyal partners on our journey so far 
and for continuing to support us as we embark on the next phase of our development.

29 February 2016

/s/ John Elkann 

John Elkann 
CHAIRMAN 

/s/ Sergio Marchionne

Sergio Marchionne
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

2015 | ANNUAL REPORT9

Certain Defined Terms

Certain Defined Terms 

In this report, unless otherwise specified, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” the “Group,” “Fiat Group,” the “Company” and 
“FCA” refer to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V., together with its subsidiaries and its predecessor prior to the completion 
of the merger of Fiat S.p.A. with and into Fiat Investments N.V. on October 12, 2014 (at which time Fiat Investments 
N.V. was renamed Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. , or FCA NV), the “Merger” or any one or more of them, as the 
context may require. References to “Fiat” refer solely to Fiat S.p.A., the predecessor of FCA NV prior to the Merger. 
References to “FCA US” refers to FCA US LLC, together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries.

2015 | ANNUAL REPORT